\---

confluence-id: 133365989

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2019-09-16 Technical WG Agenda and Notes
========================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Sep 16, 2019

Date
----

16 Sep 2019

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Curtis Mirci
    
*   Tom Creighton

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | announcements  <br>  October meetings  <br>  please [verify FAQ numbers](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ARKs/ARK+Identifiers+FAQ#ARKIdentifiersFAQ-WhatkindsofthingscanIassignARKsto?) |     | canceling October meetings due to vacation travel<br><br>asking people to review/revise new numbers in the FAQ, or to add new categories |
|     | explicit inflection proposal:<br><br>*   ?info requests metadata<br>*   ?info required, but spec continues to reserve '?' and '??' as optional synonyms <br>*   ?info requests anvl/erc, but the spec permits (as always) alternate formats<br>    *   continues to use THUMP conventions with parenthesized args<br>    *   ?info equivalent to ?info()<br><br>This is a small adjustment to the spec that doesn't quite specify how to request alternate formats, but cracks open the door to work that we can complete, not in the spec, but in the AITO context. An example of that might be the THUMP request:  <br>                  ?info()as(application/json) |     | discussion deferred to email due to lack of quorum |
|     | ARKs as URIs or URNs - part 2 of [first discussion](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ARKs/2019-08-19+Technical+WG+Agenda+and+Notes) |     | discussion deferred to email |
|     | ISSNs as NAANs – any thoughts on [second discussion](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ARKs/2019-08-19+Technical+WG+Agenda+and+Notes)? |     | discussion deferred to email |

Action items
------------

- [x] John: cancel October meetings; ask group for email feedback