\---

confluence-id: 230824783

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-04-20 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by Romuald Verrier, last modified by John Kunze on Apr 27, 2022

Date
----

20 Apr 2022

Attendees
---------

*   aurélien conraux 
*   Brian McBride
*   John Kunze 
*   Romuald Verrier
*   Bertrand Caron

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |  
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | new github repo (CDLUC3) went into place |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | bc: I should be at iPres if I can get a passport, 12-16 Sept; there still may be room for ad hoc submissions, eg, lightning talk about an ARKA WG's activities |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     |     |
| New NAAN repo: [https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan\_reg\_priv](https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan_reg_priv) |     | ACTION: send note to list to remind people to contact Maria for another invitation if their invitation has expired |
| Followup on rights statement now at top of main\_naans file:<br><br>_Information in the published NAAN registry is dedicated to the public domain under the terms of CC0 \[[https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)\]._ |     | all: ok |
| Followup on new form processing status |     | delayed |
| Setting up github "project boards" as a way to process NAAN requests<br><br>Maria would appreciate some additional consultation from another WG member at some point |     | ACTION: Brian will consult with Maria |
| [Proposal on WG leadership](https://docs.google.com/document/d/103lHwCS5Ysm-siT9jHSrOE8FIFpUgjj3nxCKY4Gjr3U/edit?usp=sharing)<br><br>NAAN Registry WG leadership proposal<br><br>Duty Curators – Primary and Secondary<br><br>Responsibilities (Primary or, if unavailable, Secondary):<br><br>1.  Handle NAAN requests<br>2.  Facilitate the monthly meeting (create meeting agenda a week in advance)<br>3.  Make sure the Duty Curator schedule is filled out at least two month ahead<br>4.  “Pass the baton” to the new Primary and Secondary _at the monthly meeting (new)_<br><br>Chair and vice-chair – provide continuity<br><br>Responsibilities:<br><br>1.  Manage googlegroup email list, lyrasis wiki accounts, and calendar invitations<br>2.  Be available as needed to the ARKA Advisory Group |     | All: this looks reasonable<br><br>Brian: I'm willing to be chair<br><br>Bertrand: good to pass the baton at the monthly NAAN meeting<br><br>Aurélien: I'm willing to be vice-chair; we may need an alternative to google products, which are hard to use in my organization |
| New terminology?  "An ARK organization" = "An organization that has a NAAN" |     | Initial response: ok to try out (before committing to it) |

Action items
------------