\---

confluence-id: 257720333

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-09-21 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Oct 19, 2022

Date
----

21 Sep 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Romuald Verrier 
*   Chloé Pochon 
*   Brian McBride 
*   Maria Gould 
*   aurélien conraux 

Goals
-----

Monthly curator check in.

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | jk: spoke about ARKs at DeSci meeting in Boston at MIT<br><br>Septicism of some people about the crypto-currency |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | Bertrand was at the meeting in the Ipres last week<br><br>JK will try to contribute to some papers |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | Nothing for now, maybe later |
| Additional curator help, starting November |     | welcome back to Chloé Pochon  <br>cp: seems like things have changed  <br>mg: there's an experiment with using github projects  <br>rv: I'd like to see how that works for my duty month starting today  <br>rv: I will likely have a colleague who can join the group as well for the few next months |
| Contact form emails to Outreach rather than NAAN WG? |     | It might be more appropriate to promote the contact with institutions and organisations to the Outreach Group than the NAAN Register Group<br><br>The contact form must be regularised |
| Shared NAAN shoulder experience |     | jk: this month had a classic example of a NAAN request that should have been a shoulder request, because it was they wanted ARKs for concepts (99152); the same would apply if they wanted ARKs for people or agents (99166); this highlights the need for shoulder processing improvements (in parallel with NAAN processing), as well as shoulder validation (delayed). It allows to work in a environment which is favourable for the web semantic technologiesrv: there is a Semantic Web conference in Paris in November, where ARKs for concepts may be relevant. It's very difficult to have an ontology or terminology term, a long-term strategy for the URI. Romuald will do a feedbackACTION: jk to clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs |
| Curators next month |     | Passing the baton to Romuald and Aurélien. Romuald should prepare the invitation and the reminder for the next meeting ? |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John Kunze clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask rv for feedback
- [ ] John Kunze change contact form email to forward to Outreach