\---

confluence-id: 262078629

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-10-19 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by Romuald Verrier, last modified by John Kunze on Oct 19, 2022

Date
----

19 Oct 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Romuald Verrier
*   John Kunze
*   Maria Gould

Goals
-----

Monthly team checkin.

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | Passed 1000 ARK organizations this month  <br>jk: will  meet this week with UTSC library about their new ARK service (see code4lib article) |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings |     | jk: submitted ARK panel proposal for Dec CNI meeting  <br>mg: ok to forward EOSC PID workshop to other ARKA working groups |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | jk: will  work with rv on a community update blog post, with an  updated map |
| Action items from last time<br><br>- [ ] John Kunze clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask rv for feedback<br>- [ ] John Kunze change contact form email to forward to Outreach |     | no  progress |
| Who is primary curator in the next few months?<br><br>next month: Bertrand/Maria |     |     |

Action items
------------