\---

confluence-id: 273351953

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2023-02-15 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by Brian McBride, last modified by John Kunze on Feb 24, 2023

Date
----

15 Feb 2023

Attendees
---------

*   Brian McBride
*   John Kunze 
*   Maria Gould
*   Romuald Verrier
*   Chloé Pochon
*   aurélien conraux 

Goals
-----

*   Monthly team check in.

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements | All | *   Code of conduct (see Community p.) : comments made on the draft version.  Identifies an email-list to report a concern about the ark process.  On the to-do-list : to set up a way to contact only one specific correspondant through a form. |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings. Any news items we should blog about? |     | *   Code4lib  (Princeton, NJ) :  Donny Winston and John Kunze will do a 3-hour pre-conference ARK training workshop, which could form the basis of a generic presentation for other events.<br>*   "La contemporaine" (FR Library) has a broken ARKs problem after a technical update, which could form the basis of an educational feedback on the blog. |
| **Update:**<br><br>working group [home page](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/NAAN+Registry+Working+Group) and sidebar cleanup<br><br>*   compress sidebar list of 3 years of meetings. Done.<br>*   revisit objectives, deliverables – please review [draft changes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MAaS9ZJkwkKoaJfKOWxSu1yr7UgwjMeBrbMC8dj7AaA/edit) | John Kunze | *   Updates made to the presentations of 2021-2022 meeting reports and Working Group charter.<br>*   Will aim to finalize this at next month's meeting. |
| Summary of the past month activities | All | Action: Brian: working on updating and consolidating curator documentation & creating github workflow for issue/project board integration |
| **Update:**<br><br>Communication on certain NAAN assignment process | Brian McBride |     |
| Update:<br><br>In the coming weeks, if ARKA were to establish a Mastodon presence, is fosstodon.org a suitable server to start with? See email of Jan 18.<br><br>*   please comment by Jan 24<br>*   Done: @arks\_org@fosstodon.org is now a verified mastodon account | John Kunze | *   Automated syndication is not needed between tweets & toots<br>*   Double posting allows to reach whichever audience  at a small price.<br>*   Matching users between platforms might be difficult since aliases might differ.<br>*   Agreed to go ahead and replicate (to the extent possible) the twitter "following" lists on mastodon (eg, with debirdify). It's ok to begin posting both from twitter and mastodon. |
| **Update:**<br><br>Action items from last time<br><br>- [x] John Kunze clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask Romuald for feedbackPlease review Draft NAA(N) assignment policy | John Kunze | *   To do : review of the updates (especially the name assigning autorithy paragraphs : NAA & partitioning of shared NAANs, concepts 99152 & agents 99166). A shoulder request has to be validated manually and not through the form.<br>*   Aim to finalize by next month's meeting. |
| **Discussion/Task:**<br><br>Review the Google form to ensure same terminology is used on the form as the curator form, e.g. Organization base URL should be Organization Resolver URL |     | *   Changes in the Google form would require changes in the processing script ==>N2T. |
| **Discussion:**<br><br>Should we close the two issues that have not had any activity in 6+ months? Issue [16](https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan_reg_priv/issues/16) & [24](https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan_reg_priv/issues/24) |     | *   Decision : 6 month old unanswered requests for additional information may be closed. |
| Who is primary curator in the next few months? Need to update [our home page](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/NAAN+Registry+Working+Group).<br><br>next month: **Aurélien & Chloé** |     | Feb 16 - Mar 15 Aurélien        Chloé  <br>Mar 16 - Apr 19 Bertand Maria  <br>Apr 20 - May 17 Romuald Brian  <br>May 18 - Jun 21 Chloé   Aurélien |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze (carry over) clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask rv for feedback
- [x] John Kunze compress sidebar 2020-2021 meetings
- [x] John Kunze practice after the meeting by clearing up the issues that piled up in my curation month
- [x] Brian McBride will take over today and will practice (pilot mode) communicating via github issues
- [ ] Brian McBride update and consolidate curator documentation for github workflow and issue/project board integration