\---

confluence-id: 282755222

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2023-03-15 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by aurélien conraux, last modified on Mar 15, 2023

Date
----

15 Mar 2023

Attendees
---------

*   Brian McBride
*   John Kunze 
*   Maria Gould
*   Romuald Verrier
*   Chloé Pochon
*   aurélien conraux 

Goals
-----

*   Monthly team check in.

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements | All | ICDL and IPRES accepted training (hybrid) sessions about ARKs<br><br>IIIF program still not fixed. |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings. Any news items we should blog about? |     | A blog post about La contemporaine (FR library). Maybe a combination with another institution. |
| Summary of past month requests | aurélien conraux | Iconador (Louvre.edu & textImage) still unfulfilled-but probably OK. |
| Summary of the past month activities | All | code of conduct : posted. No announcement made (both ENG and FR)<br><br>Curator documentation : Still pending<br><br>Github workflow for issue/project board integration ?<br><br>working Group charter (please review [draft changes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MAaS9ZJkwkKoaJfKOWxSu1yr7UgwjMeBrbMC8dj7AaA/edit)) ? |
| **Update:**<br><br>Communication on certain NAAN assignment process | Brian McBride |     |
| Social network communication : @arks\_org@fosstodon.org is now a verified mastodon account<br><br>Memento : for now, x2 manual posting on both T & M. | John Kunze | *   followers on each platform : Twitter : 340 followers / Mastodon : 120. |
| **Update:**<br><br>Action items from last time<br><br>- [x] John Kunze clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask Romuald for feedbackPlease review Draft NAA(N) assignment policy | John Kunze | *   To do : review of the updates (especially the name assigning autorithy paragraphs : NAA & partitioning of shared NAANs, concepts 99152 & agents 99166). A shoulder request has to be validated manually and not through the form.<br>*   Aim to finalize by next month's meeting. **Feedback is required.** |
|     |     |     |
| **Discussion:**<br><br>User-submitted question about dump of all the individual NAA records available in n2t.net.<br><br>"I am aware of the NAAN registry available at <[https://n2t.net/e/pub/naan\_registry.txt](https://n2t.net/e/pub/naan_registry.txt "https://n2t.net/e/pub/naan_registry.txt")\>, but I am wondering if there is any extended record that shows all shoulders registered for each NAA. This information is available on the page for each NAAN (e.g. <[http://n2t.net/ark:/28722/](http://n2t.net/ark:/28722/ "http://n2t.net/ark:/28722/")\>), but I cannot find a way to see this information for every NAA short of requesting each one sequentially. The reason I am asking is that I am interested in studying how organizations are using ARKs (especially namespaces, shoulders, and redirects) in practice." | Maria | The mentioned example only works with easyID and are a byproduct of the CDL process.<br><br>The ARK alliance does not have a systematic list of all uses of shoulders by institutions, and since the system is decentralized by nature only individuals institutions could describe their actual uses. |
| Who is primary curator in the next few months? Need to update [our home page](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/NAAN+Registry+Working+Group).<br><br>next month: **Bertrand & Maria** |     | Mar 16 - Apr 19 Bertrand Maria  <br>Apr 20 - May 17 Romuald Brian  <br>May 18 - Jun 21 Chloé   Aurélien |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze (carry over) clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask rv for feedback
- [x] John Kunze compress sidebar 2020-2021 meetings
- [x] John Kunze practice after the meeting by clearing up the issues that piled up in my curation month
- [x] Brian McBride will take over today and will practice (pilot mode) communicating via github issues
- [ ] Brian McBride update and consolidate curator documentation for github workflow and issue/project board integration