\---

confluence-id: 273350694

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2023-01-18 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by aurélien conraux, last modified by John Kunze on Jan 19, 2023

Date
----

18 Jan 2023

Attendees
---------

       Maria Gould, Brian McBride, Bertrand Caron, Romuald Verrier, Aurélien Conraux, Chloé Pochon

Goals
-----

Remaining- if any - 2022 issues.

Monthly team checkin.

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | jk: submitting recorded briefing on ARKs today for the previous (Dec 2022) CNI meeting<br><br>cp: writing article on ARKs, looking for a place to publish it |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings. Any news items we should blog about? |     | cp: I'm writing a paper (possibly for Hypothese) on use of ARKs at INHA |
| working group [home page](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/Technical+Working+Group) and sidebar cleanup<br><br>*   compress sidebar list of 3 years of meetings?<br>*   revisit objectives, deliverables |     | jk: please look over our objectives and deliverables and consider what you'd change<br><br>jk: ok to compress sidebar?  <br>all: yes |
| Summary of the past month activities |     | jk: nothing extraordinary to report; I chose not to exercise the project steps due to time constraints |
| Communication on certain NAAN assignment process |     | all: will pilot communicating via github issue comments  <br>bm: I can start doing this with my curation duties this month  <br>mg: it can be independent of the project boards  <br>jk: I will practice after the meeting by clearing up the issues that piled up in my curation month<br><br>  <br>To adress issues of all kind (technical, or eligibility or else), the Github team group offers a way to notify the whole group @CDLIC3/naan-registry with a link to the specific request |
| In the coming weeks, if ARKA were to establish a Mastodon presence, is fosstodon.org a suitable server to start with? See email of Jan 18.<br><br>*   please comment by Jan 24 |     | jk: I established an account at fosstodon, which has a code of conduct similar to ours and a mission "free and open source software" that overlaps with the ARK mission of openness<br><br>[https://digipres.club/about/more](https://digipres.club/about/more) : 500+ members interested in Digital Preservation (including Bertrand Caron <br><br>bc: I made the migration to digipres, which might be a server to consider [https://digipres.club/about/more](https://digipres.club/about/more) |
| Action items from last time<br><br>- [ ] John Kunze clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask rv for feedback |     | not done |
| Who is primary curator in the next few months? Need to update [our home page](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/NAAN+Registry+Working+Group).<br><br>next month: Brian |     | Jan 19 - Feb 15 Brian   John  <br>Feb 16 - Mar 15 Aurélien        Chloé  <br>Mar 16 - Apr 19 Bertand Maria  <br>Apr 20 - May 17 Romuald Brian  <br>May 18 - Jun 21 Chloé   Aurélien |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John Kunze (carry over) clarify and revise the checklist and policy docs to guide curators on use and encouragement of shoulders instead of NAANs; ask rv for feedback
- [x] John Kunze compress sidebar 2020-2021 meetings
- [x] John Kunze practice after the meeting by clearing up the issues that piled up in my curation month
- [ ] Brian McBride will take over today and will practice (pilot mode) communicating via github issues