\---

confluence-id: 343769151

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2024-06-19 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by Chloé Pochon, last modified by John Kunze on Jun 19, 2024

Date
----

19 Jun 2024

Attendees
---------

John Kunze, Romuald Verrier, Chloé Pochon

Goals
-----

Regular monthly meeting

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | ARK tutorial at Open Repositories 2024 conference resulted in several test NAAN requests  <br>Large number of new NAANs from Canada probably from a group of libraries JK spoke with several months ago  <br>Resolver upgrade now scheduled for Monday 24 June  <br>No announcement yet on the francophone list |
| Any news items we should blog about? Any calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings we should note? Please add to [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). |     | Next tutorial will be at DLF in Michigan July 29 |
| Status of new NAAN processing developments at CDL |     | no progress on naan processing, pending resolver upgrade |
| Review of [in-progress issues](https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan_reg_priv/projects/1) |     | 46 Requests : 39 New NAAN, 4 updates, 3 Tests. 1 request remaining : [#471](https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan_reg_priv/issues/471) (2 NAANs for one organization?)<br><br>rm, jk: It was a huge number of NAAN requests, with many email exchanges as well. Curator hero award goes to Chloé!  <br>jk: how do we protect the primary curator from overwork while maintaining a turnaround of 2 business days?  <br>rm: should be add more curators or make the duty period shorter?  <br>jk: CDL's new NAAN processing should streamline some of this; also we could explore bulk assignment, which has been proposed by Lautaro Matas for LA Referencia organizations  <br>all: both approaches seem promising<br><br>cp: who do we forward resolver technical problems to, eg, delays in resolver seeing registry updates?  <br>jk: and what do we do with general ARK support questions that often, inevitably, follow on NAAN requests? we want to be helpful but don't necessarily have the time, eg, requests on how to mint ids under new NAAN |
| Personal archival organizations |     | jk: there's a push to register personal scientific collections [https://scientific-collections.gbif.org/](https://scientific-collections.gbif.org/) ; can this inform how we respond to NAAN requests for things that look more personal (eg, "my uncle's collection") than we're usually comfortable with? some personal collections can be very important, especially for requests from under-resourced, under-represented regions; if we act on them, where would we draw a line? I'd like to think about this and perhaps propose some guidelines  <br>all: fine |
| Curator changeover as of today (standing schedule always found on group home page) |     | Bertrand primary, Romuald secondary |

Action items
------------