\---

confluence-id: 321585217

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2024-02-21 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Mar 06, 2024

Date
----

21 Feb 2024

Attendees
---------

*   Jennifer Marill, Romuald Verrier, John Chodacki, Dave Vieglais, Sefakor Ankora, Chloé Pochon, John Kunze

Goals
-----

Regular monthly meeting

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | Reminder that our use of the lyrasis wiki will end sometime soon, will be converting to Github wiki<br><br>Introducing newest member, Jennifer Marill, recently retired from the National Library of Medicine |
| Any news items we should blog about? Any calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings we should note? Please add to [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). |     | review coming events on calendar |
| Status of new NAAN processing developments at CDL |     | jk: would be nice to be able to submit comments online in a place that working group members can access; will zapier and projects still be used?dv: zapier will likely not be needed since it was in place to hook up google forms to github issuesjc: zapier was a stopgap, won't be needed it in the futuredv: will send out link to text for us to react to  <br>jk: need to get jennifer added to github repo to have curator privileges |
| review of [in-progress issues](https://github.com/CDLUC3/naan_reg_priv/projects/1) |     | a couple of leftover item moved from "in progress" to "completed", where they can be reactivated as needed |
| Action items from last time<br><br>- [x] Sefakor Ankora will discuss with WACREN the idea of a blog post about participation on NAAN WG<br>- [x] John Kunze will cover for Brian's vacation Feb 17-21 and will facilitate the Feb 21 NAAN meeting |     |     |
| Curator changeover as of today |     | Sefakor primary, Chloé as secondary will be present for first real curation request  <br>Sefakor to facilitate the March 20 meeting |

Action items
------------