\---

confluence-id: 246284605

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-06-23 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jun 29, 2022

Date
----

23 Jun 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Maria Gould, Ricc Ferrante, John Kunze

Goals
-----

     ARK spec transition, previous action items

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | newest working group member: Donny Winston<br><br>preliminary discussion about NISO standardization |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | jk: is anyone going to iPres?  <br>rf: several SI folks tend to go; jefferson bailey will be there  <br>mg: Eric L? |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     |     |
| Conference swag? Stickers for iPres? Other ideas?<br><br>![](attachments/246284605/247333012.png) |     | rf: has there been a copyright review?  <br>mg: the original icon came from a CC0 site;  <br>rf: would be good if we can state that the logo came from a CC0 site  <br>mg: ROR has used "sticker mule" without problems  <br>all: no problem going ahead with a proposal  <br>mg: who pays?  <br>jk: first time could be simple out-of-pocket donation; a kind of experiment  <br>rf: maybe we need to create a fund for this kind of expense |
| We have long talked about creating an extended (eg, 60-90 minute) video presentation/tutorial on ARKs, and now we have an invitation from the DPC (Digital Preservation Coalition) leadership to present it to the DPC membership. I'd like to propose that we figure out how to make this happen. |     | jk: DPC wants an ARK webinar  <br>rf: SI has an office that does production, but it costs real money  <br>mg: can take lots of work to pre-record; I'd suggest canvassing the WGs to find out who might be willing to participate  <br>mg: I wouldn't put pressure on that DPC event to be the one-and-only event; share the recording, but separate out the idea of later (possibly) doing a pre-recorded thing  <br>mg: I think people don't like to watch long videos; personally I'd probably prefer to choose among a cluster of short videos (3-5 minutes each)  <br>rf, jk: agreed  <br>rf: stories of real people using ARKs can be good (testimonials, use cases) |
| 1.  Julien's 3-part blog post (3 posts) on IIIF and ARKs can still use volunteers. Please respond if you're willing to work on any part. The draft versions are here:   <br>      <br>    Part 1 [https://arks.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1431&action=edit](https://arks.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1431&action=edit)  <br>    Part 2 [https://arks.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1443&action=edit](https://arks.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1443&action=edit)  <br>    Part 3 [https://arks.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1446&action=edit](https://arks.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1446&action=edit) |     | IIIF intro article:  <br>why ARKs and IIIF? why an API is important?  <br>rf: SI has reasons for choosing IIIF and ARK; recommend talking to rebecca snyder  <br>jk: I will reach out to her about this story  <br>jk: will also check that rf has an [arks.org](http://arks.org) account |
| Karen Hanson (Tech WG) has started a "[transition use case document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ChFEml3HCxm02E8c1yt8BwpGmMzLvsHZSi6O00sgixg/edit)" to which the Technical WG is requesting contributions. The document lists use cases to help ARKA create a plan and some messaging around transitioning the ARK community from the old spec ([ark:/12345/](http://ark/12345/)...) to the new spec (ark:12345/...). |     | mg: I'd like more of an overview to understand better what's being asked  <br>jk: Greg J's paragraph at the front is a decent problem summary  <br>mg: would be good to have a deadline  <br>action: set deadline and timeline |
| Action items from April 28<br><br>*   Poll Smithsonian museums about use of ARKs with images, particularly IIIF presented images Riccardo Ferrante <br>*   Explore SEO options for Wordpress websites that might improve ARK Alliance content in Google index ranking Riccardo Ferrante <br>*   Draft blog posts 1) ARK implementation with the recently fully digitized US National Herbarium collections; 2) Use of a central digital asset management system to generate ARKs for different sub-organizations Riccardo Ferrante |     | rf: no updates on these items |
| Google workspace for ARKA? |     |     |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze reach out to SI about IIIF
- [x] John Kunze make sure that rf has an arks.org account
- [ ] John Kunze ask Tech WG for deadline for use case feedback

Attachments:
------------

![](images/icons/bullet_blue.gif) [image2022-6-23\_9-0-31.png](attachments/246284605/247333012.png) (image/png)