\---

confluence-id: 273351433

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2023-01-26 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on May 01, 2023

Date
----

26 Jan 2023

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
*   Maria Gould
*   John Jung
*   Bertrand Caron
*   Donny Winston
*   Ricc Ferrante

Goals
-----

revisit deliverables, select Mastodon server, posting code of conduct, gmail access, training session structure

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements<br><br>CNI [pre-recorded ARK briefing submitted](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7HYYR0tGGcw&t=1s)<br><br>Julien Raemy's toot: Yesterday's #IIIF Community Call about "the intersection of Archival Resource Keys (ARKs) and IIIF" was recorded and is already on the @IIIF@glammr.us YouTube Channel: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=it5LA3VRXp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=it5LA3VRXpE) (Jan 25). (jak: [Notes here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j0Z6vlISaB7YDWNjtth9msz2J_7sd9qHne2N2QAAheI/edit).) |     | rf: the iiif meeting was v. interesting, esp. content state, subtleties around ark resolution, scalability questions that we could document, the SI could use to re-evaluate our approach (eg, sometimes there are thousands of images attached to an object); Richard Higgins has very interesting approach to manifests; I'll be at the 2023 meeting in Naples. |
| Any news items we should blog about? Any calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings we should note? Please add to [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). |     |     |
| Outreach WG homepage renewal draft |     | mg: regarding NAAN form updates, CDL needs to prioritize geo-locations and autoupdating of the global map of ARK orgs<br><br>bc: it's been a while since looking at wikidata; it would be good to align the wikidata presentation of ARKs along the lines of DOIs<br><br>all: please resend link to the spec transition planning document  <br>ACTION: this ^^^ |
| where should the [Code of Conduct](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eIdWzeaRPNliwS3lgM3uN2t7SI4fs_NcnPVXu56XsnY/edit) be served on arks.org<br><br>*   linked to early in the [Community](https://arks.org/community/) page?<br><br>how should it be announced? arks-forum? |     | jk:  link to Code of Conduct from the end of first paragraph of the Community page?  <br>rf, dw, jj: ok to add it there  <br>ACTION: this ^^^  <br>rf, bc: agree to announce CoC on arks-form and french forum  <br>ACTION: this ^^^ |
| selecting a Mastodon server; [some description of issues](https://groups.google.com/g/arka-outreach-wg/c/IPpWGMtg5gk) |     | rf: mastodon arks\_org handle should be listed on [arks.org](http://arks.org); can we put save an archive of @arks\_org tweets, what else can we do to prepopulate? can we move our followers list?  <br>bc: To help you find one's Twitter followers on Mastodon: [https://fedifinder.glitch.me/](https://fedifinder.glitch.me/)  <br>rf: is cross posting possible?  <br>ACTION: put archive of tweets on github<br><br>dw: having an ARKA presence on mastodon is useful as a recognized presence  <br>jk: so for now, not planning a toot campaign, but having a presence to help "mentions"  <br>rf, bc, dw: agreed<br><br>dw: [https://fosstodon.org/@arks\_org](https://fosstodon.org/@arks_org)  <br>ACTION: put mastodon credentials into the keybase account  <br>dw: in profile we can put a "verified link"  <br>ACTION: add verified link – see [https://mstdn.social/@feditips/106274105538953001](https://mstdn.social/@feditips/106274105538953001)<br><br>[https://fosstodon.org/about](https://fosstodon.org/about)<br><br>[https://docs.joinmastodon.org/user/profile/#verification](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/user/profile/#verification) |
| ARKA gmail access:  <you>@arks.org |     | rf: from the AG, there was desire to broaden access to the keybase creds to Maria |
| help with structure for 3-hour ARK training at Code4Lib in March – [draft outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GfZPuVEeqEZsxMbOsuvkkQw8AU7rVYoqiVhN1xauRHk/edit?usp=sharing)<br><br>instructors: Donny Winston and John Kunze |     | Asking group for feedback on this training plan. |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze resend link to spec transition planning document
- [x] John Kunze add Code of Conduct to arks.org, link from end of first paragraph
- [ ] John Kunze Bertrand Caron announce CoC to arks-forum and french forum
- [x] John Kunze get verified mastodon account credentials in keybase