\---

confluence-id: 331120773

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2024-04-25 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jun 27, 2024

Date
----

25 Apr 2024

Attendees
---------

*   Ricc Ferrante, Omo Oaiya, John Jung

Goals
-----

Blog posts underway, youtube update

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | different orgs are using IIIF and working through image quality enforcement/mgmt<br><br>RF gave a very high level run down of things discussed at the recent AG mtg pertaining to shifting the website to github, and improving communication across the ARKA community and lurkers. |
| Any news items we should blog about? Any calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings we should note? Please add to [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). |     |     |
| Channel updates: youtube.com/@arks\_org<br><br>*   New recording: youtube.com/watch?v=-RkMGFCGRic |     | Regarding the videos for youtube that JK & JJ were working on, JJ reported that the basic presentation is in good shape, but uploading it to YouTube hasn’t happened because the 2-level auth is tied to one person's phone. It will require JJ and JK together at the same time. 2-layer authentication dependent on an individual's phone is problematic from a sustainability viewpoint. We don't currently have a way around that.<br><br>Action Item: RF will talk with Smithsonian's head social media manager who has built relationships with staff at the various platforms. If she doesn't know of a different way to manage the 2-way authentication off the top of her head, her contact at YouTube might be helpful. |
| Blog posts in progress (Blog post template)<br><br>*   Frick (Jack O'Malley)<br>*   WACREN (Sefakor Ankora)<br>*   [Web archiving](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CJnvxh0uDx0a-u95huHi63amMNDj-zie9M8dBc7yMeM/edit?usp=sharing) (Lesley Frew)<br>*   Bodleian (Andy Irving) |     | working group members are invited to submit feedback via googledoc suggesting mode |
| Spec transition status via best practices draft |     |     |

Action items
------------