\---

confluence-id: 346488869

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2024-06-27 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jun 29, 2024

Date
----

27 Jun 2024

Attendees
---------

*   John Jung, Jack O'Malley, Omo Oaiya, Sergio Santamarina, Ricc Ferrante, John Kunze
    

Goals
-----

Blog posts

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | jk: last Monday there was a substantial upgrade to the infrastructure behind n2t.net; it should be transparent to users, but it may soon be possible to set up replicas in other locations and may make it easier to deply the ezid code  <br>rf: will there be announcement about the change?  <br>jk: it certainly warrants at least a mention in a blog post, eg, the next community update  <br>jk: given that arklet-frick code is seeing adoption, will the developer be open to improvements, issues, PRs?  <br>jo: we're working within official institutional guidelines on a Frick github account and hoping to be able to deal with bug fixes, etc.; we'd really like some help with docker issues  <br>ACTION jk: will arrange a docker/arklet meeting with jo, oo, and jj to better understand the requirements |
| Any news items we should blog about? Any calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings we should note? Please add to [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). |     | ss: any news from PIDFest?  <br>jk: I haven't heard anything specific yet  <br>rf: I'll be at ipres and the Museum Computer Networks  <br>jo: that's a conference I've attended  <br>jk: reminder to anyone wanting to present on ARKs that there are slide decks to be re-used  <br>oo: I would like to do something in French since my region is mostly francophone  <br>ss: can we create a roadmap for webinars in different languages (Spanish, French)?  <br>ACTION oo, ss: will work with Lautaro Matas on webinar roadmap  <br>oo, ss: yes to machine translation tools  <br>ss: it's important to get the word out, eg, to the Unesco meeting on open science; there are no free DOIs for Argentina; it would be great to get Unesco to lend their brand to ARKs  <br>oo: Clacso is another brand that could sponsor [https://www.clacso.org/](https://www.clacso.org/)  <br>ss: I'll need a month to explore some possibilities with [https://www.clacso.org/folec/](https://www.clacso.org/folec/) |
| Blog posts in progress (Blog post template)<br><br>*   Frick (Jack O'Malley)<br>*   WACREN (Sefakor Ankora)<br>*   [Web archiving](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CJnvxh0uDx0a-u95huHi63amMNDj-zie9M8dBc7yMeM/edit?usp=sharing) (Lesley Frew)<br>*   Bodleian (Andy Irving)<br>*   Depositar (Tyng-Ruey Chuang) |     | jk: to finish these posts we need all comments resolved, author lists finalized, and images  <br>jj: photos in blog posts are very persuasive  <br>ACTION jk: to send 30 minutes ARK tutorial slide deck to ss  <br>ss: we need this because in Argentina it's getting hard to maintain DOI fees, very unsustainable  <br>ss: I'll try to do a blog post |
| ARKs and wikidata |     | Bertrand is scheduling a meeting with jk and jj |

Action items
------------

- [ ] jk to arrange a docker/arklet meeting
- [ ] oo, ss to work with Lautaro Matas on a Spanish/French webinar roadmap
- [x] jk to send tutorial slides to ss, oo