\---

confluence-id: 104564730

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2018-09-27 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Heather Greer Klein, last modified by John Kunze on Mar 09, 2019

A CDL representative will act as interim Chair until a Chair is selected by the AG.

  

| Discussion Items | Notes |
| --- | --- |
| Summarize the charter for each working group (WG) -- tech, outreach, sustainability/fundraising<br><br>1.  **Technical WG**  <br>    1.  Proposed short-term goals<br>        1.  Planning work on the ARK IETF standardization process<br>            <br>        2.  Consult with the ARK specification team<br>            <br>    2.  Proposed longer-term goals<br>        1.  Develop procedures for shared maintenance of the organizational (NAAN) registry<br>            <br>        2.  Guiding the ARK specification through the IETF Informational RFC process<br>            <br>        3.  Work with the Outreach Working Group to implement mechanisms to measure ARK usage<br>            <br>2.  **Outreach WG**  <br>    1.  Proposed short-term goals<br>        1.  Reviewing an ARK community survey draft created by Bibliothèque nationale de France<br>            <br>        2.  Consult with the wider ARK community<br>            <br>        3.  Developing a process to gather requirements, priorities and models for shared community and infrastructure management<br>            <br>    2.  Proposed longer-term goals  <br>        1.  Launching an initiative to measure ARK usage world-wide<br>            <br>            1.  Consider how to use this as a community outreach mechanism<br>                <br>            2.  Make the survey/measurement repeatable so that watching long-term trends is possible<br>                <br>            3.  Develop a dissemination plan<br>                <br>3.  **Sustainability WG**  <br>    1.  Proposed short-term goals<br>        1.  Developing a framework to fund priorities<br>    2.  Proposed longer-term goals  <br>        1.  Pursuing funding with members of our community | Attendees: John, Heather, Sayeed, Kate, Brian, Mark, Erin, Sebastien, Martin<br><br>John K - Advisory group will handle governance. We want to launch these working groups first and then dig into governance.<br><br>Tech WG - further along. We have documents and a good launching place. We have results from the meeting in France in the spring.<br><br>Outreach WG - has some progress as well from BnF/CDL survey work. Will need to be tightened up to make sure it is achievable in a defined period of time. John - should there be long term and short term goals for working groups? Erin - the refinements will come when the groups begin, and define the deliverables, timeline, and charter.<br><br>Fundraising - we're starting from scratch here. Erin - see this group as really about sustainability, and ties into governance conversations the AG will be having. Once there is a governance discussion, there will be a resources discussion. This will inform what we are trying to raise funds for. The fundraising WG should look at short-term what we need, right away, to sustain the community and technology. What experience does the community have, and what can be done in the short term.<br><br>Sayeed: Connection and overlap between outreach and fundraising. For example, membership. Perhaps cross-representation. Will fundraising be a strategy, or actually try to bring in resources? Erin - in my opinion, more of a strategy conversation - John agrees.<br><br>Kate - important what is we really meant by long-term sustainability, which might involve other kinds of work and revenues, might want to call the group sustainability from the start. Erin - right approach. Fundraising might seem like we are selecting a particular approach.<br><br>ACTION - Change the fundraising WG to Sustainability WG<br><br>The working groups will use the proposed goals as a starting point and determine what they can complete in a defined period of time.<br><br>John H has been working to find WG members. Sebastien - BnF can include representatives for AG and WGs<br><br>ACTION - Kate offered to write up some thoughts on the Sustainability WG and how to diversify the revenue streams and make sure there is representation from people with different experiences and models. You need to know your costs to know the magnitude of funds needed at different phases of the organization. But important to get a handle on that cost to be effective.<br><br>Erin - note that the WGs will have support from the AG, such as help getting started. Erin, Heather, and David Wilcox from DuraSpace can connect with others with useful experience. Also, Lyrasis' "It Takes a Village" report can be an excellent resource. Just want to make sure everyone who participates knows they are not on their own. |
| Nominations to each WG | ACTION - Sebastien will ask Emmanuelle if she can be on the tech WG.<br><br>ACTION - send a blanket invitation to the WGs to the EOI list. This template will be repurposed for sending invites to specific people for specific WGs.<br><br>ACTION - Establish expectations for WG participation. Put in language about how to rotate off and how to switch up liaisons. Liaison can help assess how many people should be in group and if it's working and if changes are needed. |
| Need 1-2 volunteers from the AG for each WG<br><br>> Volunteers would act as liaison between AG and the WG for the interim while we populate WGs, and would help us solicit participation of others in the group based on our Expression of Interest response list (below) and other contacts you may have. | ACTION - all will make suggestions offline for additional names for WGs.<br><br>ACTION - John will send out an excel spreadsheet of the EOI (Expression of Interest) form responses including the specific comments about what they want to participate in.<br><br>Reminder to think about diversity in all its facets for the WGs - both diversity of person and diversity of institution type and geography. Looking to be intentional about soliciting help.<br><br>AG will meet once a month. 10am on a specific thursday?<br><br>ACTION - message the full group to determine regular meeting date/time |
| Define meeting frequency for AG (once a month?) and for WGs (twice a month?)<br><br>  <br><br>Future agenda item - [https://pidapalooza.org/](https://pidapalooza.org/) - Meet up? Presentations? |