\---

confluence-id: 104567827

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2018-11-08 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Heather Greer Klein, last modified by John Kunze on Mar 09, 2019

A CDL representative will act as interim chair until a Chair is selected by the AG.

Attending - John Howard, Mark Phillips, Kurt Ewoldsen, John Kunze, Heather Greer Klein, Erin Tripp, Brian McBride, Frédérique Joannic-Seta

| Discussion Items | Notes |
| --- | --- |
| Announcements -<br><br>1.  Andrew Treloar - stepping down because of time commitment. Natasha, a colleague, is recommended for a WG.<br>2.  National University of Ireland, Galway and CalTech both Expressed Interest in getting involved this week.<br>3.  Communications - can we set up a new Google Group for the Advisory Group?<br><br>  <br><br>Review Action items from our last meeting<br><br>ACTION - Kate offered to write up some thoughts on the Sustainability WG and how to diversify the revenue streams and make sure there is representation from people with different experiences and models.  **status: a small group met and started a draft of cost categories, with notes at \[2\] above**<br><br>ACTION - Sebastien will ask Emmanuelle if she can be on the tech WG. **status: done, accepted**<br><br>ACTION - prepare blanket invitation to the WGs to the EOI list. This template will be repurposed for sending invites to specific people for specific WGs. **status: draft ready for review at \[3\]**<br><br>ACTION - Establish expectations for WG participation. Put in language about how to rotate off and how to switch up liaisons. Liaison can help assess how many people should be in group and if it's working and if changes are needed. **status: not started**<br><br>ACTION - all will make suggestions offline for additional names for WGs. **status: unknown**<br><br>ACTION - John will send out an excel spreadsheet of the EOI (Expression of Interest) form responses including the specific comments about what they want to participate in. **status: done**<br><br>ACTION - create accounts for all AG members so they can edit the wiki, add notes, tag specific people for action items (person receiving an email reminder) status: started<br><br>  <br><br>ACTION - message the full group to determine regular meeting date/time  status: done, decided on 2nd Thursday of each month | ACTION - update AG member list<br><br>ACTION - set up googlegroup for AG communications<br><br>  <br><br>  <br><br>Updates on previous meeting's Action Items<br><br>Kate kindly drafted some categories for sustainability.<br><br>ACTION - Everyone to [review documentation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tBGKJXKK0_dGLf_i0PsNpZb1dkCWqEQ5JedCeCqjfco/edit) and provide feedback by Thurs, Nov 22 to new Google Group.<br><br>One big category of cost is N2T infrastructure. In talks with CalTech, someone there reviewed the code base with an eye to re-implementing it. They may be interested in making modifications and deploying it locally. They have local developer resources. If they did a re-write it would be welcome, and if we could use it, it would be a big break. We could get them excited about new features.<br><br>Emmanuelle Bermes from BnF has agreed to serve on the technical WG, good because she will co-author the specification.<br><br>An [Invitation template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JeWeObFSRILyLY4B_8hoff2yaFyZwkC9w4PT-0wBojI/edit) is perfect for people we don't know well. If we know the person we can likely recommend they join a specific WG based on our knowledge of them. We can also include why we feel they'd be a good fit for the WG. Flattery doesn't hurt.<br><br>Establishing expectations for WG participation. What do people think. Can we brainstorm terms of service?<br><br>*   Important for recruitment and effectiveness: a clear charter and scope for each WG<br>*   Defined timeline - 6 - 8 months or something. It's enough time to get it done but not too long a commitment. A year isn't too long. It goes by quickly.<br>*   Each WG should have 1-2 AG members (one as backup) co-chairs.<br><br>ACTION - Erin to link template for charter: [Task Force Charter Template](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/VIVO/Task+Force+Charter+Template)<br><br>ACTION - John and Kurt to look at drafting charter for each group.<br><br>ACTION - David, Heather, Erin, John, and Kurt to meet to talk about logistics to launch each WG.<br><br>Collecting names for Working Groups. We want to ask some of the larger organizational users if their orgs could lend more than one person to the WGs.<br><br>ACTION - We will create a new spreadsheet or googledoc where AG members can suggest people from the EOI to the WG.<br><br>How have our efforts to get AG members wiki account going?<br><br>ACTION - Heather needs to follow up to check status of editing permissions and accounts.<br><br>High level timeline - we want to get the invitations out by end of year and first meetings of the WG by mid-January.<br><br>John H - seems reasonable.<br><br>Erin - would like to think about establishing the co-chairs and liaisons for the WGs by the end of the month. Get first draft of charters before then.<br><br>Kurt - Kate and Sayeed look like they will serve as chairs and co-chairs for the Sustainability group. We have a feel for the Tech WG.<br><br>Erin - we haven't talked about the Outreach WG.<br><br>John H - it's important. People aren't so familiar with ARKs. It's not like DOIs. We need to build a reputation. We need to agree on the goals of that group.<br><br>John K - Sheila Morrissey already gave a lightning talk on the project. We could ask her to chair. We should ask the whole AG group which WGs they're interested in.<br><br>Kurt - the goals of the outreach group will be in the charter we draft. ACTION - we will meet with our DuraSpace friends.<br><br>John K - it's been a while since we did a project update.<br><br>Erin - we could do an end of year wrap up and point to events we'll be attending in 2019 and where people can meet members of our AG.<br><br>ACTION - draft a project update and put a section where AG members can add events they'll be attending in 2019 .<br><br>John H - The OR call for proposals will be coming out soon.<br><br>John K - DS and Caltech people will be at OR.<br><br>ACTION - Kurt we need to put together a template lightning talk anyone could deliver. |

1\. Meeting notes from Sept 27: [https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ARKs/2018-09-27+AITO+Advisory+Group+Meeting+Agenda+and+Notes](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ARKs/2018-09-27+AITO+Advisory+Group+Meeting+Agenda+and+Notes)  
2\. notes from sustainability discussion, preceded by draft cost categories [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tBGKJXKK0\_dGLf\_i0PsNpZb1dkCWqEQ5JedCeCqjfco/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tBGKJXKK0_dGLf_i0PsNpZb1dkCWqEQ5JedCeCqjfco/edit)  
3\. draft WG invitation letter [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JeWeObFSRILyLY4B\_8hoff2yaFyZwkC9w4PT-0wBojI/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JeWeObFSRILyLY4B_8hoff2yaFyZwkC9w4PT-0wBojI/edit)