\---

confluence-id: 108759566

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2019-01-10 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Heather Greer Klein, last modified by John Kunze on Mar 09, 2019

A CDL representative will act as interim chair until a Chair is selected by the AG.

Attending -  Kurt Ewoldsen, John Kunze, Heather Greer Klein, David Wilcox, Frédérique Joannic-Seta, Bertrand Caron, Kate Wittenberg, Brian McBride, John Howard

| Discussion Items | Notes |
| --- | --- |
| Announcements -<br><br>*   Primary goal for the meeting is to confirm charters are ready, confirm AG liaisons and select candidates to invite to join working groups.<br><br>Review Action items not completed from prior meetings<br><br>*   ACTION - We will create a new spreadsheet or googledoc where AG members can suggest people from the EOI to the WG.<br>*   ACTION - Kurt we need to put together a template lightning talk anyone could deliver.<br>*   ACTION - Create document where AG members can add events they'll be attending in 2019, for future project update<br><br>*   ACTION John will add project page link, specific group charter links to the generic invitation template<br>*   ACTION John will create a spreadsheet for tracking invitations.<br>*   ACTION John and Kurt to set a shared public calendar for ARKs meetings (ask Duraspace for help on this)<br>*   ACTION John will add information to the invitation and share for feedback. Deadline to empower members to invite working group members will be 1/17/19 | *   Charters ready for sharing with working group members<br>*   Recommended AG liaisons are listed on the charters and are confirmed<br>*   Selecting candidates: this is a starter list (included in message to AG members from John) of suggested members for each group. Need to review the lists and propose additional members to add, and then identify AG members with a relationship with the candidates to reach out to those candidates to join.<br>*   There is a draft generic invitation letter for AG member use<br>*   These notes will not include candidates – will be shared via email<br>*   Looking for additional sustainability group members, looking for suggestion from DuraSpace. Project-specific knowledge less important for this group.<br>*   [Default generic invitation template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JeWeObFSRILyLY4B_8hoff2yaFyZwkC9w4PT-0wBojI/edit) is available for reaching out to potential members.<br>*   Want to set first meetings in February/March. Set first meeting with whomever agrees to serve. Can continue to recruit after but need to get discussions started.<br>*   Kate: people likely want to know additional information about timeline, how long they will serve, how long the project will be.<br>    *   Monthly calls, one year terms.<br>*   ACTION John will add project page link, specific group charter links to the invitation template<br>*   ACTION John will create a spreadsheet for tracking invitations.<br>*   ACTION John and Kurt to set a shared public calendar for ARKs meetings (ask Duraspace for help on this)<br>*   ACTION John will add information to the invitation and share for feedback. Deadline to empower members to invite working group members will be 1/17/19<br>*   PIDapalooza coming up, ARKs is not included on agenda but many AG member attending (post-meeting note: AITO **is** now on the conference agenda).<br>*   Open Repositories deadline is January 16th (conference is early June in Hamburg). A lightning talk would be appropriate if someone from the AG is attending and can propose the lightning talk. A few people from DuraSpace will be there. |