\---

confluence-id: 178882952

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2020-01-09 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jan 09, 2020

Date
----

09 Jan 2020

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Joannic-Seta
    
*   Kate Wittenberg
*   Laurie Gemmill Arp
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
*   Brian McBride

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | CDL management |     | KE: After talking to CDL management<br><br>*   CDL is committed to the ARK identifier, which is incorporated into several of our service offerings<br>*   CDL is committed to the EZID identifier service and the N2T identifier resolver, which again support several of our internal service offering<br><br>KW: fantastic news, wonderful, and positive message from CDL; think we (Sustainability) should stop pursuing a business planning activity, which is very very challenging; I think we should re-focus on finding grants and getting community involvement  <br>JK: how? who can help us?  <br>FJ: we have confidence in CDL, but how to involve others; good that CDL is committed to ARKs, but would be nice for community to step further forward  <br>KE: yes, although CDL is not stepping back, the community must step forward  <br>LA: this will make the asks more specific in the existing WGs  <br>BM: it's good that CDL will still be important in ARK support; but how should the groups be reconfigured to support this  <br>LA: we should share this new info with the subgroups; sustainability could be dissolved; there could be ad hoc groups to take on grants rather than a standing group that focuses on grants  <br>KE: makes sense for JK to be involved or lead on some grants; probably start with a one-pager brought to the AG to see which funders to match it with  <br>KW: most funders don't fund day-to-day operations; would have to be research or innovation centered  <br>KE: CDL is not doubling down on pushing the technology forward (as they had in the past); it is suggesting grants for an open source project for next gen resolver  <br>ACTION: Kurt and John will create one-pager for next gen ARK resolver and one-pager next gen ARK id management platform  <br>JK: Tech WG update since last AG meeting in November: revising milestones and deliverables after review of progress, explicit new ?info inflection to request metadata, creation of subgroup (with Karen, Greg, and Bertrand)  <br>JK: NAAN registry maintenance still looking for volunteers; working on more automation and documentation  <br>KE: looking for partners willing to run a resolver replica  <br>BM: is there an N2T architecture document?  <br>KE: having that would useful in pursuing replication partners  <br>ACTION: KE and JK will create a high-level N2T architecture suitable for finding partners |

Action items
------------

- [ ] KE and JK will create one-pager for next gen ARK resolver and one-pager next gen ARK id management platform
- [ ] KE and JK will create a high-level N2T architecture suitable for finding replication partners