\---

confluence-id: 255918127

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-09-08 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Mark Phillips, last modified by John Kunze on Sep 08, 2022

Date
----

08 Sep 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Mark Phillips, Kate Wittenberg, Jefferson Bailey, Brian McBride

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | jk: alpha version of ARKA stickers (just 10) to debut at iPRES this month, where Bertrand will do a lightning talk; we're at 991 ARK organizationsmp: do we have org type info? would be nice to say how many in each category, eg, N national libraries; I may have a grad student who could put some time into that  <br>mp: new article about ARKs just appeared in the C4L journal: Simplifying ARK ID management for persistent access to digital objects  <br>[https://journal.code4lib.org/articles/16774](https://journal.code4lib.org/articles/16774)  (U of Toronto) |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | jb: a CFP for next CNI meeting went out yesterday  <br>mp: perhaps ARKA should propose another project briefing  <br>jk: I'll put it to the Outreach WG (ACTION) |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | mp: I was going to do a generic update on ARKA, which might be an ARKA blog post  <br>jk: it could be included as part of a community update post |
| Updates from Working Groups | NAAN  <br>Outreach  <br>Technical | bm: Maria is working to automate NAAN processing via the github repo and integration with zapier; one curator (student) is leaving the group in order to finish masters degree activity; we had a discussion about virtual orgs and about drafting a code of conduct; the curator schedule was filled out for rest of year<br><br>jk: in the Outreach WG, we have ongoing work on Julien's IIIF multi-part blog post; we decided to put SEO on back burner; changed the contact form inputs (mostly spam) to go to the WG mail alias  <br>mp: Ricc will send an update soon<br><br>jk: in the Technical WG, Tom Creighton is working with his colleagues on persistence statements; still waiting to hear from NISO; finishing up an arknoid tool for easy minting using docker and the old Noid software |
| Google Suite Updates |     | jk: one more person to track; still looking into a free option (to keep costs as close to zero as possible) |
| Fiscal Hosting Discussion (brought up during meeting) |     | Some reasons that might lead to fiscal host for ARKA are google workspace fees, domain name fees, WP hosting.  <br>jk: one example I've heard of is opencollective.com which might be an easy path to hold a very small amount of money; I will try to learn more about this possibility and what's involved  <br>jb: IA has helped some orgs explore this, eg, IIPC; we helped one org go with CLIR for fiscal sponsorship; there's a great deal of work and overhead, and I'm not sure AKRA has enough need to justify it; generally you need to worry about it when you are doing a bunch of grants or having a lot of money coming inkw: agreed; and since there's no revenue; it may be hard to find a fiscal host that would be willing to do itmp: agreed  <br>bm: we went through process with Samvera and I can confirm it takes lots of work; it would probably not be worth it |
| Planning for the rest of the calendar year. |     | mp: by the end of the year I would like AG to approve a code of conduct eg, an umbrella statement  <br>     separate WG statements; I'd like a fairly simple high-level statement; also want to start thinking about chair for next year and meeting frequency going forward  <br>all: going back to meeting every other month works fine  <br>mp: I will update the calendar schedule so that we'll meet only in odd-numbered months, eg, Nov., Jan., etc. |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John Kunze ask Outreach WG about another CNI project briefing and ping NISO about ARK work item status