\---

confluence-id: 230828791

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-06-09 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Mark Phillips, last modified on Jun 09, 2022

Date
----

05 Jun 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Brian McBride
*   John Kunze
*   Mark Phillips
*   Jefferson Bailey
*   John Chodacki
*   Kate Wittenberg
*   Ricc Ferrante

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | *   MP did TCDL preso w/ 2 other orgs - 60ish attendees; one org created [https://github.com/uhlibraries-digital/greens](https://github.com/uhlibraries-digital/greens); MP will follow up with copresentors for blog post / WG<br>*   JC at OP and saw Taiwan poster of a system heavy reliant on ARKs, ““Programmable Data Repositories” by Cheng-Jen Lee & Tyng-Ruey Chuang from Academia Sinica in Taiwan”<br>*   JK we’re nearing 1,000 ARK orgs, announcement? |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | *   BNF doing IPRES short talk on ARKs<br>*   no other upcoming CFPs in calendar atm |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | *   1,000 orgs announcement<br>*   MP will reach out to UH re greens blog<br>*   JK blog about retirement / retrospective (later on)<br>*   JB arklet blog post still “in process”<br>*   Ricc SIA post re internal use of ARKs (July)<br>*   Other smithsonians using ARKs for IIIF<br>*   MP -- a “note from the chair” blog post in july, possibly combined with the 1K org or “org sustainability” points below |
| Review of [Onboarding Documentation](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/Procedures+for+maintaining+ARKA+communications) | John K. | *   discussed as part of below; some edits remain as privs, etc are updated |
| Discussion on Secret Sharing | Mark P. | *   What should the process be to maintain continuity and also security.<br>*   Questions on [info@arks.org](mailto:info@arks.org) emails? How to access them, who gets them, how to set up who gets them?<br>*   Non-profit for google suite for migrating email there -- JC offered to look into it<br>*   Gdoc ownership - can this be genericized and non-personal - [https://www.google.com/nonprofits/workspace/compare/](https://www.google.com/nonprofits/workspace/compare/)<br>*   CDL devs that are maintain ARKs infrastructure will also need access to some things <br>*   need to revise discussion next call when WGs are joining the AG |
| Progress Update of ARKA | Group | *   How to evidence the significant work done to “professionalize” ARKA, esp the invisible work; pair this with some forecasting / strat planning stuff<br>*   Socio-technical infrastructure upgrades!<br><br>*   diversifying leadership; Chair/VC formalization<br>*   inclusion of WGs in AG and structural comms/collab plan<br>*   sustainability planning<br>*   formalizing the tech specs by standards groups<br>*   progress within the WGs |

Action items
------------

- [ ] MP will reach out to UH re greens blog
- [ ] JK blog about retirement / retrospective (later on)
- [ ] JB arklet blog post still “in process”
- [ ] RF SIA post re internal use of ARKs (July)
- [ ] RF recruit other smithsonians using ARKs for IIIF?
- [ ] MP -- a “note from the chair” blog post in july, possibly combined with the 1K org or “org sustainability” points below
- [ ] JC look into gsuite for non-profits to migrate arks.org stuff / email there
- [ ] MP to invite WG chairs to next AG meeting
- [ ] ALL further review onboarding docs linked above