\---

confluence-id: 266043423

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-11-10 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Mark Phillips, last modified by John Kunze on Nov 16, 2022

Date
----

04 Nov 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Mark Phillips 
*   John Kunze 
*   Kate Wittenberg 
*   Jefferson Bailey 

Goals
-----

AG meetings going forward, Code of Conduct, WG reports

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | jk: had contact with Decentralized Science Labs ([desci.com](http://desci.com)); they use IPFS, which relies on long ids based on content-addressing, and they are interested in using ARKs for more compact, citation-friendly ids; they'd like to partner with us somehow; they may have modest amounts of money available for things like stickers or web hosting<br><br>Good to have new groups actively interested in ARKs. But we do not want to offer special arrangements to new members that were not offered to  <br>others. What elevates this opportunity to something different? Maybe explore this further with them. Main issue is that individuals are not funding specific activities. They can be members the same way that others are. They can be listed if they become involved in the alliance in some way.<br><br>mp: they should start with filling out the EOI (Expression of Interest) form, as many other have done  <br>mp: not good to have individuals paying for things, eg, stickers; in fact, my UNT budget might have sticker money; shouldn't offer logo placement without talking to orgs that are supporting ARKA  <br>kw: not sure why they would want it  <br>jb: don't think we should get into the business of showing logos of other orgs  <br>mp: prefer that they simple be listed by name, as on the arks.org/community page  <br>mp: as we as an org develop needs for funding, we want to have a better sense of what our expenses are; that kind of transparency helps us plan  <br>jk: as it is, some costs aren't that apparent, such as those implied by CDL hosting  <br>all: any offer of support should be brought to the AG for discussion<br><br>We were turned down for CNI briefing. Possibility of doing a pre-recorded session. |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | jk: code4lib has a call out for preconference full- and half-day workshops; maybe it's finally time for ARKA to plan one of these? one member of the Tech WG is interested in helping out |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     |     |
| Updates from Groups<br><br>Technical Group<br><br>Registry Group<br><br>Outreach Group |     | Just a reprise from WG notes. No new news.<br><br>mp: we passed the 1000 ARK organizations milestone  <br>jk: anyone know of a service that can stuff envelopes for ARK orgs that want to receive physical ARKA stickers?  <br>jb: I will find out what schwag service we use at IA |
| [Code of Conduct Draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eIdWzeaRPNliwS3lgM3uN2t7SI4fs_NcnPVXu56XsnY/edit) | JohnK/Mark | jb: fine with CoC and setting deadline and do review by email  <br>mp: agreed  <br>jb: suggest comments by Dec 15, aim to put into place by Jan 31  <br>all: agreed |
| Planning for AG Leadership for 2023 | Mark | mp: planning for next year of AG, I'm fine being chair for next year  <br>jk, jb: sounds good to me  <br>mp: propose the AG continue to meet every other month next year, so Jan, March, May, July, Sept, Nov; can always add another meeting as needed |

Action items
------------

- [ ] Jefferson Bailey find out what schwag service IA uses
- [ ] John Kunze send out CoC draft for review by working groups
- [ ] Mark Phillips confirm AG schedule and adjust meeting calendar for 2023