\---

confluence-id: 230820024

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-02-10 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Mark Phillips, last modified by John Kunze on Feb 11, 2022

Date
----

10 Feb 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Mark Phillips, Erin Tripp, John Kunze, Jefferson Bailey, Ricc Ferrante, Kate Wittenberg, John Chodacki, Kurt Ewoldsen, Brian McBride, Emmanuel Jaslier

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Introductions | Mark P | Mark  - Assoc Dean Texas - using ARKS since 2009. Interested in community and trying to build a sustainable future for Arks. Involved in tech working group and has been on advisory group almost since the beginning. First meeting as Chair as this group (Whoop whoop!)<br><br>Kate W - Portico. Been on this group for a while to contribute to long term strategic planning <br><br>Jefferson - Director Internet Archive. Just joined the Advisory Group. Has minted ARKS for a long time. Migrated services internally. Stood up a mining service internal. Would like to see ARKS more utilized. <br><br>Kurt - IT manager at CDL and EZID service involvement. Handing it off to johnC at CDL. Worked with JohnK and DuraSpace \_> LYRASIS for sustainability work. <br><br>Ricc - director digital services Smithsonian - big push to adopt ARSKs We have several million. OA initiative is growing our ARK use. More to come. Interested in advancing the area of qualifiers and infections to see how to push the functionality. <br><br>Brian - Head of Head of Digital Infrastructure Development University of Utah. 2 million ARKS. Exploring it technically and as a whole. <br><br>John K - Chief Trouble Maker  Retiring in July from CDL. Interested in leaving the ARK Alliance in good shape. <br><br>JohnC - UC3 director at CDL - work on topics of digital preservation and data management. ARK portfolio moved into his group. Looking for a way to make it as robust and sustainable as possible. Joined this group at end of Nov 2021. <br><br>Erin T - LYRASIS. Been here since 2018. <br><br>Emanuel - National Library of France. Serves as the national bibliographic agency of France and ARKS in France. Bertrand is our leading expert on this matter. Personal expertise on ARK is low. Taking this post and learning as I go. |
| Announcements | JohnK | We just topped 900 institutions.  <br>ARKS accepted through RFC process. It will be published in 6 months (ish) |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | Workshop proposed around persistent ids for Texas conference. There will be ARKS content. A variety of institutions in Texas will participate. It will include a community update. If accepted it will happen virtually in May 2022. <br><br>Trying to figure out where to submit proposals. Workshops seem like a good format for outreach. <br><br>Mark is willing to share his proposal for others to reuse. Ricc expresses interest. <br><br>JohnC - we are using ARKS in ways that meet our institutional needs. It would be good to have some boilerplate content to present at workshops. <br><br>Ricc - we have a problem with how ARKS have been implemented for different types of objects. We could have use cases that can be generalized. <br><br>Erin - possible that this discussion could continue in the outreach working group. <br><br>JohnK - there are slides. they need updating. it would be great to add those use cases like Ricc mentioned. |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | Jefferson could blog about standing up a server.  Who should he reach out to with copy?? Could we have someone from the outreach facilitate? Yup. [Outreach Working Group](Outreach-Working-Group_108757994.html)<br><br>Content related to topping 900 institutions. <br><br>Outreach related to RFC standard - a transition will be required there. It will be more than a blog post. It will be educational. |
| Review of ARK Alliance Activities to date | CDL (Kurt) | Discussion about where we've been. Kurt provided a summary based on a detailed document. <br><br>NAAN registry working group - to decentralize a critical process that has been centralized at CDL by JohnK. Developed a process. Members are active and engaged. There are several French-speaking members of that group. Fantastic. This group is the gold standard in community organizing that we would like to replicate in other working groups. People understand the charter of this group and it feels sustainable. <br><br>Outreach working group - worked to build a new website, clean up Wikipedia presence, support presentations/proposals, identify where ARKS aren't mentioned and should be, develop FAQ and having it translated into French and Spanish. New leadership passed off to Julien R from Switzerland. Varied participation in that group.  This group feels less sustainable and the charter feels less clear. <br><br>Technical working group - the primary focus was preparing for the RFC process. Lots of good work done on that front. JohnK led this group since it was formed. It would be nice to have a new leader for that group (at least after the RFC is out). The focus could be to finish the counting ARKS projects and one other. No obvious candidates for a new leader. However, some persons of interest. Looking to fill a co-lead of that group to facilitate upcoming transition. <br><br>Advisory Group - many members have been here since inception. We set up the working groups. The sustainability working group was shut down because we decided at that point in time not to be an organization that collects fees. No clear value proposition for doing so. Notes and history of that group are on the wiki space. It could be reviewed again in future as things change. Mark Phillips and JohnK worked on 2 funding proposals. JohnK and Kurt developed some LYR Catalyst Fund proposals as well. What role do we want to take on in the future as a group? We also need to find a co-chair for succession planning for the future. <br><br>ACTION - @All review charter and discuss at future meeting about what lands and what should change going forward. Make it a low complexity exercise. We also need to redefine the communications hub between the AG and working Groups. These could be reviewed every 12 months. Working groups have a lot of autonomy to grow and function in ways that work for them. |
| ARK Alliance Planning Discussion | Phillips | JohnK is retiring and his last day is in April. There is a level of urgency to this. We need an interim plan and execution for this transition. E.g., step 1 - explaining the timeline and need for change/transition, step 2 picking a non-CDL to lead each working group, step 3 - sharing log in credentials/documentation, step 4 -  reviewing the charter for each group <br><br>We need to figure out calendar invites, zoom links that can persist, communications with working groups<br><br>Could Mark P be the advisory group representative in the technical working group about the immediate next steps and get some feedback on how to communicate to the other working groups? That might take too long. Mark will coordinate with the tech working groups. ACTION<br><br>Ricc could coordinate with the outreach working group. ACTION He will join the working group. He will also join the technical working rgoup. <br><br>Opportunity to create a boilerplate that could set the tone for future communications. It can help reinforce the new structure. <br><br>Jefferson - will look at the different advisory groups and join one. <br><br>Mark P - we will need to talk about representation but let's focus on our interim plan for now. We do need someone to communicate the Naan working group and it has a new chair. We can just forward them the boiler plate message and JohnK can answer their questions. <br><br>JohnC - will continue to support the NAAN registry so JohnC can be the liaison for that communication. ACTION |
| Role of NAAN/Technical/Outreach/Advisory Groups in ARK Alliance |     |     |
| Other Topics |     |     |

Action items
------------