\---

confluence-id: 249135170

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2022-07-14 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Mark Phillips, last modified by John Kunze on Jul 15, 2022

Date
----

14 Jul 2022

Attendees
---------

*   Jefferson Bailey, John Kunze, John Chodacki, Mark Phillips, Kate Wittenberg
    

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | mp: IMLS announced leadership and Laura Bush grants  <br>  [https://www.imls.gov/news/national-leadership-grants-libraries-laura-bush-21st-century-librarian-programs-now-accepting](https://www.imls.gov/news/national-leadership-grants-libraries-laura-bush-21st-century-librarian-programs-now-accepting) ; |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | In October there's a 1st International Conference on FAIR Digital Objects [https://www.fdo2022.org/](https://www.fdo2022.org/) in The Netherlands. |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | mp: working on a blog post  <br>jb: working on a blog post for IA resolver, hopefully in August |
| Updates from working groups. |     | jk: NISO work item (ARK standard) is in draft, awaiting review from Portico before wider review  <br>kw: Portico is is fine going ahead with the NISO work item<br><br>jk: ARKA doesn't have a code of conduct (CoC), which comes up when recruiting new WG members  <br>jc: I don't have not much experience, with this but been aware of how the CoC for datadryad was pulled together from django and mozilla sources; specifying how to handle reports may be important; see also [cscee.org](http://cscee.org) CoC  <br>mp: CoC can be important with heated discussions around technical contributions -- things can break down on debating the merits of PRs  <br>mp: my thought is that something will be developed and a CoC incorporated into the ARKA brochure site  <br>jk: ACTION: I can take this on |
| Update on Key sharing with Keybase | John K, Mark | jk: ARKA secrets have been shared with the leadership of the AG and Outreach working group  <br>jc: CDL is willing to do take on [arks.org](http://arks.org) domain name payments  <br>jk: looking into moving [arks.org](http://arks.org) from Wordpress (hosted) to a free github pages site |
| Discussion of Google Suite | Mark, John C. | jc: I think this will be a better, easier way to manage branded email addresses: role accounts, naan registry emails, triage responses; maria g. was talking about wanting email aliases for naan registry responses  <br>jk: need to talk with wg members about this and understand the concrete impact on workflows  <br>jc: example: the naan registry wg could use a role account used by multiple people, changing each month; this would be a more nimble way to do things  <br>jk: ACTION I'll gather wg feedback and get back to the AG |
| Further discussion of progress in the past year. |     | mp: we've made lots of progress this past year  <br>jc: yes, some of it is internal signaling about more formal structure  <br>mp: good to see orgs other than CDL taking more a leadership role is good  <br>mp: propose skipping August meeting (I won't be able to make it)all: agreed  <br>jc: would be good to have resolution on the ARKA branded email thing by september  <br>mp: yes, that and code of conduct |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John Kunze will work on gsuite for branded email and drafting a code of conduct