\---

confluence-id: 294453650

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2023-07-13 AG Agenda and Notes
==============================

Created by Mark Phillips, last modified by Jefferson Bailey on Jul 13, 2023

Date
----

13 Jul 2023

Attendees
---------

*   in attendance: mark p., john c., john k., jefferson b., ricc f.

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | nada |
| Any news items we should blog about? Any calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings we should note? Please add to [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). |     | nothing recent of note |
| Update on recent Workshops (IIIF, JCDL) | John K. | Outreach group update: <br><br>*   4 tutorials done – c4l, iiif, dweb, jcdl<br>*   2 coming up - science info partners, ipres (2 others in review) |
| Updates from Working Groups<br><br>    NAAN<br><br>    Outreach<br><br>    Technical |     | *   outreach<br>    *   ricc working on template for interview-based blog post series<br>*   naan<br>    *   south african effort to set up a blockchain-based naan registry? need tech help<br>*   technical<br>    *   family search is doing dependency analysis for a tech migration<br>    *   forum thread on metadata preservation (see below); questions for advisory group<br>    *   URN namespace registration standardization work ongoing<br>    *   new naan form processing and records retention<br>        *   need a self-serve approach, as curators are taxed (63 new requests since last AG meeting) |
| Update on CDL Technical Work | John C. | *   CDL still maintain n2t resolver & naan registry, been refactoring<br>    *   naan<br>        *   use github and (github actions) for naan reg requests approval process<br>        *   dave v. is leading tech work, coordinating with naan group<br>    *   n2t<br>        *   remove n2t from ezid, make ezid a web app with its own resolver (next gen resolver)<br>        *   having n2t as a global resolver for pids beyond special handling of arks, currently resolves arks and hands off others pids<br>        *   making n2t also handoff arks, resolver will live at arks.org; arks.org can be global resolution home specific to arks<br>        *   timeline: contractor dependent, so unknown (aim: 3-6 months)<br>        *   comms: position n2t as a global resolver of any pid<br>        *   WGs have been involved; if further discussion needed, should be scheduled out as work is planned |
| Maintainers Group / Jessica Meyerson / Educopia | Mark | Update on initial discussion with Jessica Meyerson<br><br>*   invite her to come to an AG meeting to talk community cultivation stuff |
| Moving arks.org from Wordpress to Github Pages | Mark | *   Mark offering UNT to help move content/website<br>    *   goal for something to show by september<br>    *   CDL / UNT to coordinate re redirects etc |
| Slack for ARKs | John K. | Worth a shot. If it doesn't work, we can shut it down. |
| Lyrasis Confluence Costs / Google Suite Update | Mark | Lyrasis wants $2K/year for confluence use; use GH? get funding?<br><br>*   Smithsonian has an instance, potentially open to relocation/hosting<br>*   Update on possibilities re next meeting (need a plan by September) |
| Advisory Group Membership | Mark | tabled until sept |
| ARK Alliance Costs Discussion | Mark | tabled until sept |
| Metadata sustainability – [thread on arks-forum April 18](https://groups.google.com/g/arks-forum/c/Bx3PMJwLQF0/m/gWBFn1z2AAAJ?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer)<br><br>A. Kohlbecker: "primary metadata redundancy should rather be established within the ARK community" | John K. | tabled until sept |

Action items
------------