\---

confluence-id: 108762695

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2019-03-04 Sustainability WG Agenda and Notes
=============================================

Created by Heather Greer Klein, last modified by John Kunze on Mar 15, 2019

Date
----

04 Mar 2019

Attendees
---------

*   Sayeed Choudhury
    
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
    
*   John Kunze
*   Brian McBride
    
*   Roger Schonfeld
*   Erin Tripp
*   Kate Wittenberg

Goals
-----

*   Kickoff meeting

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
| 5m  | Reiterate WG goals | KW  | Find the most cost-effective way to deliver ARK services that provide value to the community. |
| 10m | Member introductions | All |     |
| 15m | Establish meeting schedule | All | SC: regular meetings would be desirable, this time works well in fact – every two weeks<br><br>RS, BM: same<br><br>RS: hard to tell what our deliverable will be |
| 10m | Selection of chairs/co-chairs | All | KW: don't think we'll be able to create a quote, more of a model, with multiple options<br><br>KE: will have multiple options, what is the value proposition?<br><br>ET: one deliverable is what resources/costs are needed; the community will want to know what CDL has invested<br><br>SC: we will forward to AG for action<br><br>ET: put timeline (eg, 3 months) on recommendations delivered to the AG<br><br>KW: agreed<br><br>RS: what are the fully loaded costs (not just direct, but also direct costs), and how will they change in the next 3-5 years? this is a complex question<br><br>KE: I think CDL can get the cost information together<br><br>RS: if we have shared understanding of cost analysis, would also need some rationale for how costs are growing or not growing – how long would it take to get this together<br><br>KE: John and I can attend the next few meetings to shed more light on the costs<br><br>SC: will have to deal in rough estimates and orders of magnitude<br><br>RS: what are the drivers of costs<br><br>KW: ACTION - John and Kurt will do presentation on costs and history at next meeting |
| 20m | Logistics (email list? call technology, note-taking, reporting to AG) | All | JK: maybe interim chair continues for 1 or 2 more meetings<br><br>SC: seems good to wait until issues become clearer<br><br>KE: I can be co-chair / backup<br><br>RS: can we review at the next meeting for what the value proposition is?<br><br>KW: ACTION - prepare background for presentation<br><br>JK: ACTION - set up googlegroup for this WG<br><br>KW: think about other members we should add for a future meeting |

Action items
------------