\---

confluence-id: 121962587

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2019-06-13 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jun 13, 2019

Date
----

11 Jun 2019

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Tracy Seneca
    
*   Kurt Ewoldsen 
*   Sébastien Peyrard
*   Maria Gould

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | [current survey](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K_qaAbuY0VfuJGMzWzCNKyutJN0m3pt0aQajSzNZHBM/edit?ts=5ce312b1) status<br><br>use inputs to inform next survey? |     | Ready to go by the end of this week; requesting responses in two weeks.<br><br>First group will be EOI respondents, then the NAAN registrants.<br><br>This group "owns" the results and prepares the next survey. |
|     | [FAQ v0.91](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ARKs/ARK+Identifiers+FAQ%2C+version+0.91) still in-progress<br><br>Question: final review phase at [ARKs forum/mailing list](https://groups.google.com/group/arks-forum) ? |     | After mailing list review, then declare it finished for a year.<br><br>Wait for translation to French? maybe not – this could be asynchronous.<br><br>Keep an eye on translations to Spanish and French. |
|     | animation ideas; who can help with storyboarding? |     | 2-minute maximum, rather than 5-minute; more like TV commercial<br><br>KE: recommend role of persona, Kurt, at org Y, who has problem Z, and here's how ARKs makes things better; what are those roles? what are make it better?<br><br>KE: want them to be generic so they cover broad base<br><br>Roles:<br><br>curator in museum, <br><br>librarians from catalog side, digital library, virtual exhibitions<br><br>archivist working with special collections<br><br>"things don't break until system-to-system migration"<br><br>TS: people don't realize they need PIDs until they realize that their ids were going to break<br><br>TS: we're going to have to change every reference to the old stuff in, and this will happen again and again<br><br>"I have legacy ids"<br><br>Collection management (archivesspace)<br><br>Content management (contentdm)<br><br>DAMS (more backend digital preservation)<br><br>JK: what about journal systems like OJS<br><br>MG: maybe "librarian" is too general, better might "digital repository/scholarship librarian"<br><br>JK: museums sometimes want to leverage legacy identifiers |
|     | LYRASIS webinar offer; what topics to cover in a 1-hour session? |     | TS: would be really helpful to know, which LYRASIS-supported tools work with ARKs?<br><br>KE: maybe the topic could be more generic, such as the benefits of PIDs<br><br>TS: Archivesspace is really about finding aids; Islandora could use ARK support |

Action items
------------