\---

confluence-id: 117735690

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2019-05-23 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Sep 10, 2019

Date
----

23 May 2019

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Peter Sachs Collopy
    
*   Sébastien Peyrard
*   Regrets: Tracy, Maria, John Howard

Goals
-----

*   review survey and FAQ

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | announcements |     | John gave another AITO presentation this week at the UCDLFx meeting in San Diego; made good connections with ARK implementors from UC libraries and museums. Sebastien suggests maybe we can link to NCDD (Dutch) videos if only for PID intro material. |
|     | survey |     | JK: concerned that sending the initial survey only to people who filled out the EOI (Expression of Interest) form may not reach people who really depend on ARKs.  <br>SP: The survey looks ready to go.  <br>PC: Noting that the survey jumps from easy questions to questions that require specialized knowledge. This is probably ok since the target audience filled out the EOI form.  <br>SP: Perhaps some of hard questions should be optional or have a choice such as "I don't know enough to answer..."  <br>PC: not asking the name of the organization, optionally?  <br>SP: asking for the organization name also helps so we know if two people from same org are filling it out.  <br>PC: name and email help understand data at a more granular level  <br>PC: typo: change contract -> contact  <br>SP: maybe add line to say contact info won't be public |
|     | FAQ |     | JK: Any comments about the structure and flow of FAQ?  <br>PC: It seems to have some natural sections: basics, comparative, persistence and deletion, collaboration, .... It's unclear how to organize the sections without disturbing flow. Maybe these section headings: Basics, ARKs and Other Identifiers, Resolvers, Metadata  <br>SP: What about an Identifier Life Cycle section, eg, questions on early object development and deletion? Metadata questions could go in a Curating ARKs section.  <br>PC: Metadata questions currently provide no examples of what you might see.  <br>JK: Maybe that kind of more detailed material doesn't belong in an FAQ, but lives somewhere appropriate in the envisioned [arks.org](http://arks.org) website.  <br>PC: The FAQ could morph into an outline of the [arks.org](http://arks.org) structure. It would be complemented by place the FAQ doesn't go, such as the "how" details.  <br>SP: The FAQ is extremely useful since 90% of it is not in the ARK spec and is otherwise hard to find out about.  <br>JK: Is the FAQ ready for release?  <br>SP: Almost ready to release, and it can grow organically after that.  <br>JK: Where should it go on the wiki?  <br>PC: Top level of the wiki is appropriate, alongside the project vision and roadmap.  <br>SP: Agreed. Also, a strength of the FAQ is that it's simple and casual.  <br>SP: It would be good to link to the 10 persistent myths about persistent ids twitter thread.  <br>ACTION: JK will make the changes proposed |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John to post updated slides
- [ ] revise FAQ per meeting feedback and post to main part of wiki, eg, add link to 10 persistent myths tweet