\---

confluence-id: 108762691

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2019-03-28 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by Heather Greer Klein, last modified by John Kunze on Apr 06, 2019

Date
----

07 Mar 2019

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
*   Tracy Seneca
*   Peter Collopy
*   Sébastien Peyrard

Goals
-----

*   Kickoff meeting

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
| 5m  | Reiterate WG goals |     |     |
| 10m | Member introductions | All |     |
| 15m | Establish meeting schedule | All | The group agrees to meet bi-weekly initially and will change the frequency when it becomes appropriate<br><br>8am pacific time, every 2nd and 4th Thursday of the month |
| 10m | Selection of chairs/co-chairs | All | The group agrees to John K. & Kurt co-leading the initial meetings and then possibly making a change.  Kurt informs the group that while the CDL staff is willing to take on the initial responsibility, we are really looking for other individuals and organizations from the community to step forward into leadership roles over time. |
| 20m | Logistics (email list? call technology, note-taking, reporting to AG) | All | Zoom is fine for teleconferencing, as is a google group and a rotating note-taker<br><br>Advisory Group liaisons are Kurt, John K, and John Howard<br><br>Need to shared overview docs and central place ("brochure site") for ARKs<br><br>The group agrees to use the Confluence wiki space for collaboration<br><br>The group agrees to use a Google Group for communication<br><br>Peter ask a question about the draft questionnaire from the ARK Summit<br><br>Sebastien shared link: [Latest survey draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lzJEvMjj3_OCm8KKtQ5_aJHra2RSzbsx_ZH2C2Ma34g/edit)<br><br>Tracy asked whether there is additional background she (and other group members) should know<br><br>Action item:  John shared a link in chat and will put a permanent link on the wiki<br><br>For the next meeting, John & Kurt will prepare a packet of resources regarding ARKs & AITO; during the meeting CDL staff will relay the history of how we got to this point and share our vision of the future.  This will help to better frame and define the tasks assigned to the working group. |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze set up googlegroup
- [x] John Kunze add survey link on WG home page
- [x] John Kunze send out meeting invitations
- [x] John Kunze post current draft canned powerpoint presentation
- [x] Heather Greer Klein make sure group members appropriate credentials for wiki editing