\---

confluence-id: 185991427

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2020-03-26 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified by Julien Antoine Raemy on Apr 23, 2020

Date
----

26 Mar 2020

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Julien Antoine Raemy
*   Bertrand Caron
*   Maria Gould
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
*   Peter Sachs Collopy

Regrets
-------

*   Tracy Seneca

Goals
-----

*   AITO wiki refresh

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | Announcements |     | This meeting is about updating some of our wiki pages.<br><br>No announcements |
|     | - [x] John: Ask Lyrasis (again) for traffic analytics on top-level wiki pages<br><br>LYRASIS: "Confluence does have an analytics plug-in, however it has been disabled for some time because it causes performance problems. It applies to the whole wiki rather than just to one space (if we could assign it to just one space it would be ideal for the way ARKs uses the wiki)." |     | CDL is part of the Lyrasis "Leaders Circle" so we could through this ask for their support on a more formal basis.<br><br>Kurt Ewoldsen: We may need to discuss about relocating content where analytics could be possible. |
|     | Recent and upcoming presentations<br><br>*   March 4 ArchivesSpace webinar<br>*   March 24 virtual HathiTrust presentation<br>*   March 27 virtual RDA Software Ids session (one ARK slide, 7 am pacific time)<br>*   April 23 virtual CNI presentation (11:30-12:30 pm pacific time) |     | Couple of webinar and virtual meetings in March.<br><br>CNI has been rescheduled so every session is available online throughout April. Session will be recorded. |
|     | New [Draft Spanish FAQ](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/Draft+FAQ+sobre+identificadores+ARK) – looking for reviewers<br><br>Is this a non-terrible recipe to get started translating wiki page to Narnian?<br><br>1.  go to translate.google.com, set to translate English to Narnian,<br>2.  enter URL of wiki page,<br>3.  open translated page,<br>4.  copy/paste into new wiki page,<br>5.  start cleaning up formatting errors, beginning with replacing table of contents with TOC macro<br>6.  stop when reasonably clean<br>7.  turn it over to native speaker Narnian speaker after setting them up with wiki credentials |     | John Kunze will look if a native speaker, maybe someone from Argentina, could do some proofreading of the Spanish FAQ. Maria Gould will have a look beforehand.<br><br>KE: could consider publishing with a prominent disclaimer (and invitation to others to fix it) |
|     | Action Items from last time:<br><br>- [x] Everyone: Provide feedback on [commenting version of NAAN request form](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vzpVz_eAfLvKKCmDW1VwJWMpUU-i8r6Xprw_-oQ59j4/edit?disco=AAAAI9E2XaM&ts=5e472660&usp=comment_email_document&usp_dm=truea) by March 5<br>- [ ] John: schedule future meetings, decide whether to publish FAQ translations on Confluence or Google Docs<br>- [x] John: change meeting frequency to monthly<br>- [x] John and Kurt: Review roadmap and communications page and share with Outreach working group for feedback, find venue for John’s account of ARK development<br>- [x] [Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12KAQVFgU9YFBtLqm44q6bVxLJ3bCgysDsdFM5WSgYjw/edit?usp=sharing) gdoc<br>- [x] [Communications](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16A8cPMMt-Z4v_XxrP1RFXtqE6WnluX7nJf0GqrpFeoc/edit?usp=sharing) gdoc<br><br>- [ ] Tracy: Review resources and values statement, assess whether it needs revisions and what information we have on the listed metrics, and raise questions for revision<br>- [ ] Peter: Write a brief ARK history for Wikipedia |     | To all Outreach WG members: please provide feedback to the Roadmap and Communication Google Docs.<br><br>We could provide quarterly newsletters: new organizations that received NAANs, AITO milestones, guest blog post, etc. Need to provide an outline for the newsletter first. |

Action items
------------

- [x] Everyone: Provide feedback on the Roadmap and Communications Google Docs
- [x] Maria Gould: have a look at basic cleanup of the Draft Spanish FAQ
- [x] John Kunze: see if Carlos Authier can do some proofreading of the Spanish FAQ
- [x] Julien Antoine Raemy: newsletter outline
- [ ] Tracy: Review resources and values statement, assess whether it needs revisions and what information we have on the listed metrics, and raise questions for revision
- [ ] Peter: Write a brief ARK history for Wikipedia