\---

confluence-id: 183076362

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2020-02-27 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Mar 24, 2020

Date
----

27 Feb 2020

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
*   Peter Sachs Collopy
*   Maria Gould
*   Tracy Seneca
*   Julien Antoine Raemy

Goals
-----

*   Revise first contact with AITO: NAAN Request form
*   Review presentation materials for a general introduction to ARKs
*   Review stale top-level wiki content pages – revise? toss?

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | Announcements: <br><br>*   New member Julien Raemy, based in Geneva, has a grant to create an ARK allocation service<br>*   New [NAAN Registry WG](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/DRAFT%3A+NAAN+Registry+Working+Group) approved to administer the registry as well as develop policies for doing so |     | JR will act as service provider, similar to EZID manager |
|     | The NAAN Request form is one of the first contacts people have with ARKs and ARKsInTheOpen.org. With that in mind, before the meeting, please<br><br>*   submit test request using the current [NAAN Request form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfd1CX6idwLB47g8OGKUG654auV8IU8yI7DAs61cXGOoFDn0g/viewform?c=0&w=1), and<br>*   add feedback to this commenting version (which is seeded with feedback from Maria Gould)<br><br>The registry working group Github repo contains documentation on procedures for actually incorporating the data entered on this form into the registry. For EZID, Maria is generally filling out the form on behalf of the client. The Geneva approach will also be to centrally administer NAAN registration for several universities. |     | Some people act as service providers, eg, Maria for EZID<br><br>JR will be acting in that role wrt Swiss Universities |
|     | Good time for us to think about the ARK/AITO message, as next month there will be 3 presos on ARKs:<br><br>1.  [RDA session on software ids](https://www.rd-alliance.org/use-cases-and-software-source-code-identification), March 19 (3-mins on ARKs for software) (John Kunze): [one slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YKobHzX6j3akXvxr9VDot3coPZ1bWA-FIlB_oV1Rx10/edit?usp=sharing)<br>2.  [ArchivesSpace webinar](https://archivesspace.org/archives/5930), March 4 at 11am pacific (John)<br>3.  CNI Panel, March 30, 4 speakers in one hour (Karen Hanson, Bess Missell, Tom Creighton, John) |     |     |
|     | Before the meeting, please review these stale top-level wiki pages, which seem to be in scope for Outreach, and consider what changes you would make:<br><br>*   [Roadmap](Roadmap_96994246.html): <br>*   [Resources and Value Statement](Resources-and-Value-Statement_96994295.html): <br>*   [Communications](Communications_90979110.html): <br>*   [Events](Events_90979116.html): <br><br>Volunteers needed: are you willing to make some revisions? Feel free to suggest anything, including retitling a page, deleting it, changing it's theme, etc. A page that served AITO during project infancy may not serve it well now. |     | Roadmap: John and Kurt will revise and shorten, with links out to WG pages, and share for feedback.<br><br>Resources and Value statement: This doesn't seem stale, but does raise the question of which metrics we know and how we can track them. The audience might be internal to ARKs in the Open rather than external. Parts of the document describe ARKs rather than ARKs in the Open. Tracy will review.<br><br>Project Communications: John and Kurt will revise and share for feedback.<br><br>Events: Maintaining the events list would be the most challenging; others could be reviewed quarterly or biannually. In the IIIF community, events sponsored by IIIF are on their website, but third parties can enter events into a Google doc, then another person can validate them, and a script then publishes them on a website. Should we have a list of past events? Not on an events page, but perhaps elsewhere. If we don't host regular events, we can drop this page.<br><br>We don't know how much traffic these pages get. John Kunze will look into it when requesting credentials for Julien Antoine Raemy. |
|     | Volunteers still needed:<br><br>*   short wikipedia history section: <br>*   research if there's a way to generate a confluence-to-confluence English-to-Spanish FAQ translation (this would vastly reduce the burden of reimporting a copy/pasted translation sourced from confluence): |     | Short history: Peter will write, citing longer account by John, which John and Kurt will find a venue for. (Additional idea: [https://blogs.loc.gov/thesignal/](https://blogs.loc.gov/thesignal/))<br><br>Translation: A few links to take a look at: https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/28648/language-macros-for-confluence?hosting=server&tab=overview, https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1215126/language-manager?hosting=server&tab=overview. An alternative approach: Would it be simpler to just keep each version in a Google doc? |
|     | WG introspection: given recent cancellations, change meeting frequency? |     | We'll change the frequency to monthly, on either the second or fourth Thursday of each month.<br><br>What is the state of ARK support built into digital asset management systems? There seem to be vendors doing this, but not the open source systems yet. Developing support within open source repositories could be a grant proposal.<br><br>John Kunze will meet with Julien Antoine Raemy and Tracy Seneca to talk about ARKs, repos, IIIF, and grants |

Action items
------------

- [x] Everyone: Provide feedback on [commenting version of NAAN request form](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vzpVz_eAfLvKKCmDW1VwJWMpUU-i8r6Xprw_-oQ59j4/edit?disco=AAAAI9E2XaM&ts=5e472660&usp=comment_email_document&usp_dm=truea) by March 5
- [x] John: Ask Lyrasis for traffic analytics on top-level wiki pages, schedule future meetings, decide whether to publish FAQ translations on Confluence or Google Docs
- [x] John Kunze: change meeting frequency to monthly
- [ ] John and Kurt: Review roadmap and communications page and share with outreach working group for feedback, find venue for John’s account of ARK development
- [ ] Tracy: Review resources and values statement, assess whether it needs revisions and what information we have on the listed metrics, and raise questions for revision
- [ ] Peter: Write a brief ARK history for Wikipedia