\---

confluence-id: 187171633

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2020-04-23 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified by Julien Antoine Raemy on May 25, 2020

Date
----

23 Apr 2020

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Julien Antoine Raemy
    
*   Maria Gould
*   Tracy Seneca
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
*   Peter Sachs Collopy

Goals
-----

*   closing in on 600 organizations

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | Announcements<br><br>*   INCIPIT code sharing<br>*   almost at 600 organizations<br>*   Leaders Circle |     | *   JK noticed that ARKs were not listed in LOC standards list. Sent an email with background and justification to request addition.<br>*   Meeting with INCIPIT - code walkthrough with Greg Janée. Meeting was recorded and can be made available if people are interested in viewing it. Julien's team began to install software but ran into a couple of issues. They are looking forward to collaborating on the code.<br>*   There are now 598 organizations. Reaching 600 would be a nice milestone and opportunity to make some noise and fanfare. Newsletter (quarterly?) could be an opportunity to share updates. <br>*   Leaders Circle status (exploring with LYRASIS). KE reports that they are still working on mechanics of setting that up and should have more information next week. JK: this is a new development in LYRASIS partnership that opens up new opportunities for small amounts of funding. <br>*   JK: CNI presentation later today<br>*   MG: ARKs/AITO need a visual identity! (to be discussed at next meeting) |
|     | Wiki progress status<br><br>*   Project Communications has been revised<br>*   Roadmap page has been simplified and revised<br>*   Events page (now gone) has been folded into Project Communications |     | *   JK and KE worked on communications and events page. Folded events page into communications page. Updated roadmap and made it simpler. Action for JK: include links from roadmap to working group pages. |
|     | Working [revisions of the Resources and Values](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vfJv7P6WVjYG8GsYrJYJUOuwX-u4hbVPj_XhHOk0cOw/edit?usp=sharing) wiki page | Tracy Seneca | *   TS Resources and Values Statement revision. Question remains about how useful the document will be going forward. Document emerged out of Open Canvas exercise for open source projects as they are getting started. Mainly an internal document to be used in planning. One confusing thing about the document is how focus goes back and forth between ARKs and AITO. TS recommendation is to overhaul so the focus is on AITO. If we keep this on the Wiki include a link at the beginning to the Open Canvas exercise. TS worked through portion of the document to examine the existing text and suggest revisions. JK: This kind of self-conscious focus was important at startup but may be less important now. TS updated problem statement to focus on need for AITO. Also notes that the section on solutions and section on resources are closely linked. Resources requested prompt what the solutions should be.<br>    *   Milestones section: not in original framework but there are items called metrics that aren't really metrics (milestone is something with an endpoint; metrics are collected over time). Suggest determining what we want to track over time and how frequently to track (e.g., monthly/quarterly). Group discussion would be helpful to determine what metrics would be most helpful. Vanity metrics for OS projects: numbers that are put out there but don't tell you much. Other metrics can actually inform what actions need to be taken next. Number of mailing list subscribers, number of code contributors can really vary and unclear what they indicate. For everything that we decide to measure we should have a goal, i.e., if we are counting we should have a sense of what number we want the count to be. Added % of systems that include out of the box support for ARKs - but what is our goal here? Looking at contributors, unclear who would actually be contacted. Should be narrowed down. Probably the most fruitful area for this overall revision is looking at this metrics section to determine what we want to be counting.<br>    *   Resources required: Some of these not useful. We need people, people's time, and money. Just naming an ability is not a specific ask.<br>    *   Contributor profiles section can be condensed: boiled it down to organizations and added a couple to the list<br>*   JK: What should we do about the Open Canvas exercise, other original planning docs? Make private? JR appreciates that the information is accessible. TS: document looks long right now but it's really meant to be a one-pager displayed in a grid. If we proceed with this we could use the one-pager grid format. And the rich detail on metrics can be its own section. Next steps: TS will finish the rest of the sections. Everyone else should look at the revisions and confirm they look good and then TS will convert to the grid format. |
|     | Newsletter status<br><br>[Newsletter outline (Google Doc)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PzF6I4e2kqJ55UoAMxIwfW51Nu2Inw5p1XRxh5zPMuc/edit) | Julien Antoine Raemy | *   Newsletter ideas from other communities.<br>    *   IIIF - Google Forms workflow for submitting content<br>    *   Europeana - more thematic (editors decide on themes)<br>*   Template ideas<br>    *   Metrics<br>    *   Number + location of NAAN registry organizations<br>    *   WG updates<br>    *   One technical explanation at a time<br>    *   Events<br>    *   Community interviews - highlighting implementations<br>    *   Showcase ARK artifacts<br>    *   Project next steps<br>*   Audience<br>    *   How to balance technical vs non-technical audiences? Different newsletters? <br>*   Mailchimp options<br>    *   Free version does not include features like A/B testing, better templates<br>    *   Does newsletter have to live somewhere to get metrics?<br>    *   MG: You can get basic metrics on how many people open, click links etc. Premium version may not be worth the expense. We can save archived versions (assign ARKs to them!)<br>    *   Can JR start mocking up sections? |

Action items
------------

- [ ] All: do any of you know how to go about designing an ARK logo? Artists who might contribute logo ideas?
- [x] John Kunze include links from roadmap to working group pages
- [ ] Tracy Seneca will finish the rest of the sections of the [Resources and Values wiki page](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vfJv7P6WVjYG8GsYrJYJUOuwX-u4hbVPj_XhHOk0cOw/edit?usp=sharing)
- [ ] All: look at Tracy's revisions and confirm they look good
- [ ] ... then Tracy Seneca will convert to the grid format
- [x] Can Julien Antoine Raemy start mocking up some newsletter sections?