\---

confluence-id: 208342259

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-09-23 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Dec 07, 2021

Date
----

23 Sep 2021

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
*   Maria Gould
*   Roxana Maurer
*   Bertrand Caron
*   Tracy Seneca

Goals
-----

     Status of Quick Start page; meeting facilitation going forward

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| announcements |     | No announcements |
| calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | iPRES lightning talk in October  <br>Everyone take a look at the calendar of events and look for presentation opportunities |
| status update on draft of [Quick Start](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-UKS5OU6oGLh1cfcdZCBydOfr5jt7Tub5utxtTaVXzM/edit?usp=sharing) page | RM  | *   Reviewed first draft of 'getting started' page: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-UKS5OU6oGLh1cfcdZCBydOfr5jt7Tub5utxtTaVXzM/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-UKS5OU6oGLh1cfcdZCBydOfr5jt7Tub5utxtTaVXzM/edit)<br>*   Discussion of how to reduce duplicated content in main "About" page, particularly "Shoulders".<br>*   Suggestion: pull all information about Shoulders into one page that is comprehensive<br>*   Getting started guide could use pointer to more detail about metadata - it's mentioned but no further support is provided<br>*   RM will add more links; comments on the document are welcome<br>*   RM recommends link to this guide from top level menu at arks.org – what to name the link?<br>*   Suggested names: Getting Started; Get Started; Start Here |
| ARK wikipedia page to get history section with link to recent SAA interview<br><br>here's a link directly to ARK origin story | PC  | *   PC (in absentia): The next steps are for me to go back to the draft I wrote some time ago, revise it from your new published interview, and incorporate citations to that as well. Once I’ve done that, I’ll add it to the Wikipedia page. So that’s on my to-do list.<br>*   Add blurb about interview to the ARKA site News page<br>    *   TS volunteered to post |
| Proposed: "Outreach Facilitator "drawn from working group members<br><br>E.g., change facilitator every 3 months (Jan-March, April-June, ...)<br><br>Duties: come up with agenda items (eg, by asking for them), run or cancel the monthly meeting |     | *   How would facilitator know is going on in other working groups?<br>*   Facilitator could solicit agenda items in advance of the meeting - individuals could add their own rows to the next agenda<br>*   RM: return to Outreach WG charge - look at the status of the 3 main objectives<br>*   JK: Do we need a chair vs facilitator?<br>*   Bring in new people to contribute<br>    *   Chloe, or someone like Chloe<br>    *   Discussions happening at \[\] about getting more engaged in ARK Alliance |
| Proposed: ARKA group facilitator position<br><br>Duties: facilitate onboarding of new working group members (across all working groups) – confluence credentials, WG homepage update |     | Hold on this for now |
| Should ARKA join the National Digital Stewardship Alliance?<br><br>From NDSA Vice Chair:<br><br>"Of course, ARK Alliance should join, y’all would be a great NDSA member! There are no membership fees at the moment, but we do ask that each member provide at least two folks to join and participate in NDSA Interest and Working Groups. You can read more about becoming a member and the process here: [https://ndsa.org/membership/join/](https://ndsa.org/membership/join/). Please let me know if you have any questions!" |     | *   TS interested in participating in NDSA in any case (via UIC)<br>*   Alternative: find people active in NDSA who would want to participate in ARKA |
| Guest blog post for new NAAN holder ([https://digitalcollections.frick.org/](https://digitalcollections.frick.org/)) |     | *   Volunteers for writing a blog post on this collection/organization?<br>*   Would be good to solicit posts from longterm users |
| DPC Webinar? |     | *   RM inquired about status of the webinar idea for DPC - John will follow up |

Action items
------------

- [x] Tracy Seneca Write blog post about SAA interview
- [x] John Kunze look at details for ARKA becoming member of NDSA
- [x] John Kunze look into what happened with DPC webinar idea