\---

confluence-id: 208341734

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-06-24 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Oct 24, 2021

Date
----

24 Jun 2021

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Tracy Seneca 
    
*   Maria Gould 
*   Regrets: Kurt Ewoldsen; Bertrand Caron; John Howard

Goals
-----

*   older action items, recruiting, institutional categories

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | announcements<br><br>*   rollout announcements: every announcement followed by new newsletter subscriptions<br>*   ARKS at IIIF Conference<br>    *   Full session: Association of IIIF and ARK Protocols for Efficient Identification and Organization of Data. Examples of Implementation in the Archives Sector with Pleade. Modou DIA and Jean-Luc ARVERS<br>    *   Lightning talk: "Implementing Presentation v3 in a Jiiify" by Kevin S. Clarke and Mark Matney (UCLA) Mentioned "MinterFactory", which generates unique IDs for manifests. Did anyone else see this and did they specify ARKs? |     | TS: at IIIF, glad to see lots of people talking about persistence in different ways, eg, remote and local; one group doing end user assessment in DHumanities strongly requires local copies of files; maybe one way to reach them is via "personal digital archiving"  <br>TS: might be worth following up with IIIF talks from Modou DIA (Pleade platform) and MinterFactory; and btw both of them pointed people to N2T (instead of [arks.org](http://arks.org)) for ARK info  <br>ACTION: review N2T to link it more strongly [arks.org](http://arks.org); especially the [https://n2t.net/e/ark\_ids.html](https://n2t.net/e/ark_ids.html) page  <br>JK: IIIF Archives Community Group chairs stepping down  <br>TS: group was supposed to take off the way the IIIF Museums CG took off,  <br>    but didn't; Getty and Holocaust Museum did some work on that |
|     | [upcoming meetings](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/Calendar+of+events?src=contextnavpagetreemode), calls for papers, submission deadlines<br><br>*   New upcoming meeting page is in the Outreach WG space - based on Fedora calendar. We can look at this regularly for opportunities for presentations.<br>*   Call for iPRES lightning talks is open through July 31. |     | TS: strongly recommend we do a lightning talk to iPres  <br>ACTION: John to propose a proposal, eg, "tech spec changes" (Roxana's topic); Tracy happy to co-present  <br>MG: given conference fatigue, a lightning talk could be just as effective as a longer paper |
|     | - [x] John Kunze reach out to https://tanc-ahrc.github.io/PIDResources/PID%20functionalities.html |     | They were listing n2t.net for ARK info instead of arks.org. |
|     | duty roster of folks from all working groups to deal with contact form and [info@arks.org](mailto:info@arks.org) email<br><br>*   eg, June 22, "Hi, i am interested in using ARK identifiers, I will apply for a NAAN code. I wanted to know how I can use N2T as a resolver once I have my NAAN. Are there any costs to pay for the resolver service?"<br>*   one WG member is retiring; do we have enough people for Outreach? |     | TS: For support questions, is there a way to engage the ARKs forum in the answers; hard to see a duty roster working for Outreach  <br>JK: the June 22 example feeds into the basic question, which is in the FAQ category  <br>TS: people who are building local minters and resolvers could answer some of the harder tech questions -- can we recruit some of them to join a working group?  <br>ACTION: ask Tech WG about tech respondents to general tech inquiries  <br>MG: summer may not be the best time to recruit, but could work to send recruitment drive message to Outreach and ARKs-forum  <br>TS: has there ever been a meeting of all the groups? sometimes it's fuzzy what our group is "reaching out" about; it would help to learn what the other groups are doing at an "all hands" meeting |
|     | institutional categories<br><br>*   retrospective - Chloé's analysis<br>*   prospective - should we add a category (eg, with pick list) to new request form?<br><br>*   need to add "update NAAN" capability<br>*   categorization of institutions <br><br>\- Architecture<br><br>\- Archives<br><br>\- Association (only one)<br><br>\- Bank (only one)<br><br>\- Construction (only one)<br><br>\- Publication<br><br>\- Education : all organizations which have pedagogical content and which are not university<br><br>\- Government agency<br><br>\- IT : organisations that offer services related to new technologies and software<br><br>\- Law (only one)<br><br>\- Library<br><br>\- Media : journalism, TV, press agencies ...<br><br>\- Museum<br><br>\- Music : only 3, maybe we can put it in others categories<br><br>\- Research : all institutes, laboratories and foundations that are not universities<br><br>\- University |     | JK: interested in saving this work for later consideration on how to take advantage of it<br><br>ACTION: TS to work on simplifying the list |
|     | Other |     | TS: how to do branding; some people want branding  <br>MG: why? can it be solved by education rather than branding change?  <br>JK: frequently asked question, with two-part answer |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze review N2T to link it more strongly [arks.org](http://arks.org); especially the [https://n2t.net/e/ark\_ids.html](https://n2t.net/e/ark_ids.html) page
- [x] John Kunze Tracy Seneca propose iPRES lightning talk, eg, "tech spec changes" (Roxana's topic)
- [ ] John Kunze ask Tech WG about tech respondents to general tech inquiries
- [ ] Tracy Seneca to work on simplifying the institutional type list