\---

confluence-id: 208341457

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-05-27 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jun 22, 2021

Date
----

27 May 2021

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze
    
*   Maria Gould 
*   Tracy Seneca 
*   Kurt Ewoldsen 
*   Julien Antoine Raemy 
    

Goals
-----

*   action item followup; new calendar page

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | announcements | Julien | Julien participated in a PID Alliance (which address the recommendations of the _PID Federation_ scoping study, now renamed PID Alliance) meeting early this May. |
|     | upcoming meetings, calls for papers, submission deadlines<br><br>*   [new events calendar here](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/Calendar+of+events); all are welcome to update | Tracy<br><br>John | Tracy: CfP Deadline for iPRES 2021, hybrid this year, is in a few days (extended to May 31st). They require a paper (3 pages for short, 8 pages for long). This summer, there will be a call for lightning talks. A good topic may be the evolution of the ARK spec. <br><br>John: all are welcome to add new events to the calendar of events page, which is mostly based on the Fedora events calendar, on Confluence. |
|     | finishing up ARKA rollout announcement to email groups<br><br>*   [updated announcement text](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17fdnZUrzApmqSuTfqzC3uQWCStcaBju3L3X72LJY-8w)<br>*   [updated (reduced) spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jlK91f5Mlkven8VMrPx3UYCvnLZPyg4I5XXUlrcGfTI) of email groups; still to do:<br>    *   MG: 1<br>    *   TS: 2<br>    *   JK: 11 <br>*   spreadsheet linked from group home page for future use (to complement twitter – are we missing other channels?) | John | Almost "too old" to announce. John updated some charts in the announcement text as well as the spreadsheet. Anyone can claim the announcement to the channels that are not yet done.<br><br>Do we need a better outreach strategy to promote ARKA and ARKs on Twitter? We need to do more than just being active on the platform, but what is the goal that we want to achieve though? <br><br>*   Reaching out to a larger audience with basic announcements<br>*   Monitoring relevant news from people and organisations that we follow<br><br>Maybe we could collect all ARK-related videos and repost them (when we have the critical mass). We do have a youtube channel (currently empty). Twitter should be adequate for now. |
|     | - [ ] Roxana Maurer draft a Quick Start page<br>- [x] John Kunze to add Roxana to googlegroup<br>- [x] John Kunze see if Smithsonian would like to present at DLF<br>- [ ] Bertrand Caron to work with John Kunze on wikipedia page<br>- [x] Tracy Seneca to contact LYRASIS about need for ARK service<br>- [x] Tracy Seneca to think about how to reach out to developers listed in the arks.org/resources page<br>*   [Resource spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1FZILYhYlrJvZ-QcQ5BjcTvQRsqfQQ55Rlp4YU9Y8AGU/edit?usp=sharing)<br>*   [Resource questions/comments](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hIgKd7_gvwDAAdml5D_nLqcNa0TmIMxcrSogLeRnWaQ/edit?usp=sharing)<br>- [x] John Kunze reach out to https://tanc-ahrc.github.io/PIDResources/PID%20functionalities.html list ARK info, changing n2t.net-based docs to arks.org-based docs<br>- [x] Peter Sachs Collopy to copy object-type-ARK-counts from the FAQ to the Wikipedia page | John<br><br>Tracy | Bertrand and John have met regarding the update of Wikipedia pages.<br><br>Tracy will follow-up with John separately to see how/when to contact Lyrasis.<br><br>Regarding the resources page, Tracy created a Google Doc with a [series of questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hIgKd7_gvwDAAdml5D_nLqcNa0TmIMxcrSogLeRnWaQ/edit) and a [spreadsheet which lists the different tools](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1FZILYhYlrJvZ-QcQ5BjcTvQRsqfQQ55Rlp4YU9Y8AGU/edit#gid=0) (minting scripts, EZID and N2T codebase, etc.). Most of the listed tools appear to be individual endeavour. Should some of them appear and be owned under the ARKA umbrella instead?<br><br>Maria: shouldn't we set up an ARKA GitHub team?<br><br>John: The ones that we could put there at the moment are NOID and the N2T codebase. <br><br>Maria: ROR is revamping their website and collect information via this form (ROR Integration information): [https://airtable.com/shrQlmqDpXie13ufz](https://airtable.com/shrQlmqDpXie13ufz)<br><br>Tracy will add columns and curate the spreadsheet. |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John Kunze set up an ARKA github team; considering moving the N2T codebase and NOID repos into it