\---

confluence-id: 225149905

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-10-28 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Nov 03, 2021

Date
----

28 Oct 2021

Attendees
---------

*   Roxana Maurer 
*   Maria Gould 
*   John Kunze 
*   Tracy Seneca 
*   Julien Antoine Raemy 

Goals
-----

    Newsletter content, first wikipedia history section, NDSA volunteers

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| announcements<br><br>*   newsletter due out early November |     | We have only one item for the moment. Should it be sent out every other month (change the settings)? Or should I (John) turn off when we don't have sufficient posts?<br><br>Tracy: what about asking the other ARKA WGs for posts?<br><br>John: for example a new specification did come out<br><br>Tracy: we should add it<br><br>Roxana: maybe we can also add WG meeting minutes/standing agenda items that are newsworthy and convert them to posts.<br><br>Tracy: It would be difficult for me to write posts that are technical. Maybe one person per WG could write a summary for the newsletter. <br><br>Julien: maybe we can change the automation algorithm (more than 2 or 3). <br><br>John: yes I can look into tweaking the algorithm. <br><br>John: Liaisons could be people that sit on Tech&Outreach (eg, Roxana), NAAN&Outreach (eg, Maria), etc. |
| calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | Roxana: I wanted to be on the RDA panel but I had to pay fees to participate so I'm not going to attend it. <br><br>Tracy: hard deadline (March) for the next iPRES conference in Glasgow. The new ARK specification could be of great interest if solid enough now or before March. <br><br>Roxana: it is a good idea to present the new ARK specification at iPRES 2022.<br><br>Tracy: I will update the [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html). <br><br>John: everybody should feel free to keep this up to date. |
| people to work on [Getting Started page](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-UKS5OU6oGLh1cfcdZCBydOfr5jt7Tub5utxtTaVXzM/edit)<br><br>(discussed [09-23 meeting](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/2021-09-23+Outreach+WG+Agenda+and+Notes)) |     | Roxana: only one comment from Maria (concerning EZID) - we can definitely take it out.<br><br>John: who wants to take the information down? Everybody should have access to arks.org <br><br>Tracy: I removed the part about EZID on the website.<br><br>Everyone - please have a look at the Getting started page so we can publish it. |
| Blog post about ARK origin story | John | Reworking from the interview. <br><br>John: when ready, I will ask for input. |
| Blog post about iPres [Lightning talk slides](https://www.slideshare.net/jakkbl/the-ark-alliance-20-years-850-institutions-82-billion-persistent-identifiers-20211022) | Tracy | Tracy: conferences are different from published pieces. When should we let people know that we did participate at a conference? Before, during, after? Also where do we want to make the slides available?<br><br>John: This lightning talk is available on Slideshare. <br><br>Julien: we could embed it directly on the post. <br><br>John: better to use the WordPress Shortcode than copy/pasting the HTML through an <iframe> on WordPress. |
| new [Wikipedia history section](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archival_Resource_Key) | Peter | John: peter added a History section on Wikipedia. He thinks that it could still be improved. Please have a look and provide feedback if needed. |
| _If ARKA becomes a member of NDSA..._<br><br>Each member organization is required to identify and provide one or more representatives to participate in NDSA activities. Multiple representatives are encouraged.<br><br>Representatives from NDSA member organizations agree to:<br><br>*   Serve on one or more [Interest and Working Groups](https://ndsa.org/working-groups/).<br>*   Participate in the surveys NDSA conducts of its membership.<br>*   Review drafts of NDSA publications and provide feedback as requested.<br>*   Assist with dissemination of NDSA news as requested.<br>*   Follow the [DLF Code of Conduct](https://www.diglib.org/about/code-of-conduct/).<br><br>### Interest Groups<br><br>#### [Content](https://ndsa.org/groups/content/)<br><br>*   Focusing on the selection, discovery and preservation of digital content. For example, the group members are conducting surveys around US web archiving practices and developing case studies around a variety of types of content to share compelling stories that demonstrate the value of digital preservation in our communities.<br><br>#### [Standards and Practices](https://ndsa.org/groups/standards-and-practices/)<br><br>*   Promoting effective methods for digital content selection, organization, preservation and access. Current activities include work to enhance coverage information and resources on born digital preservation concerns and criteria in Wikipedia.<br><br>#### [Infrastructure](https://ndsa.org/groups/infrastructure/)<br><br>*   Working to identify and share emerging practices around the development and maintenance of tools and systems for curation and preservation. For example, the Infrastructure Interest Group is studying and reporting on member approaches to design and operation of large scale storage systems.<br><br>### Working Groups<br><br>Working Groups are created on an as needed basis. Once formed, groups may perform a one-time activity, a cyclical activity, or an ongoing activity. This activity level is listed after the Working Group name below. Further details about each group is provided on their individual pages.<br><br>#### [Communications and Publications](https://ndsa.org/groups/communications-publications/) (ongoing)<br><br>*   Working with the Coordinating Committee and Group Chairs to assist with internal and external communications, blog posts, website updates, and editing and publishing NDSA reports and other materials.<br><br>#### [Conference Planning Program Committee](https://ndsa.org/conference/) (annually)<br><br>*   Working to plan all aspects of the DigiPres Conference. Including: choosing theme, reviewing conference proposals, selecting keynotes and more.<br><br>#### [Excellence Awards](https://ndsa.org/groups/excellence-awards/) (annually)<br><br>*   Administering awards that highlight and commend creative individuals, projects, organizations, and future stewards demonstrating originality and excellence in their contributions to the field of digital preservation. Awards are given out at the DigiPres conference.<br><br>#### [Fixity](https://ndsa.org/groups/fixity/) (cyclical)<br><br>*   Created to address the “…clear need for use-case driven examples of best practices for fixity in particular system designs and configurations established to meet particular preservation requirements” raised in the 2015 NDSA National Agenda. This group produced the 2017 Fixity Survey Report as a result of their work. A 2021 survey is in progress.<br><br>#### [Levels of Preservation](https://ndsa.org/groups/levels-of-preservation/) (ongoing)<br><br>*   Working to provide the methodology by which the important NDSA Levels of Digital Preservation document can be adapted more readily—taking in the broadest possible feedback in the process. Created the Levels of Digital Preservation V2.0 in October 2019. Work continues.<br><br>#### [Task Force on Membership Engagement and Recruitment](https://ndsa.org/groups/membership/)<br><br>*   The Task Force on Membership Engagement and Recruitment was assembled to explore the questions of membership and engagement raised by the NDSA’s evolving scope and role within the global digital preservation ecosystem.<br><br>#### [NDSA Agenda](https://ndsa.org/groups/national-agenda/) (cyclical)<br><br>*   Revising and updating the NDSA Agenda to integrate the perspective of dozens of experts and hundreds of institutions to provide funders and executive decision‐makers insight into emerging technological trends, gaps in digital stewardship capacity, and key areas for funding, research and development to ensure that today’s valuable digital content remains accessible and comprehensible in the future, supporting a thriving economy, a robust democracy, and a rich cultural heritage.<br><br>#### [Staffing Survey](https://ndsa.org/groups/staffing/) (cyclical)<br><br>*   Works to re-release a survey about staffing practices as a follow up to previous NDSA Staffing Surveys (2012, 2017).<br><br>#### [Storage Survey](https://ndsa.org/groups/storage-survey/) (cyclical)<br><br>*   Works to collect information about storage infrastructures over time. The 2019 Storage Survey Working Group was convened in late 2018 to gather new data on preservation storage practices. The goal of the [2019 survey](https://osf.io/uwsg7/) collected updated information in order to compare to the NDSA [2011](https://hdl.handle.net/1902.1/19768) and [2013](https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/8NYC97) surveys, but to gather information on how new technologies or standards have impacted preservation storage.<br><br>#### [Web Archiving](https://ndsa.org/groups/web-archiving/) (cyclical)<br><br>*   Conducts a survey about web archiving activities to organizations engaged in web archiving or in the process of planning a web archive to take the NDSA Web Archiving Survey. Reports have been published in 2011, 2013, and 2017. |     | John: a few things to do if we want ARKA to become a member of the National Digital Stewardship Alliance (NDSA), such as having representatives in one or more NDSA Interest and Working Groups. How much time would it involve though?<br><br>Tracy: it could vary substantially depending on the interest and working groups. For instance the design of the new version of the Levels of Digital Preservation Matrix that required a lot of work. <br><br>Tracy: I want to make sure though, if I participate also as an ARKA member, that I can serve ARKA interests as well as those from my institution. One interesting group: the Infrastructure Interest Group. <br><br>John: would you see yourself signing up for this group?<br><br>Tracy: Yes. But how committed do you need to be within the NDSA? For example in the IIIF community, it's not really a problem to not participate actively for a while. <br><br>_NDSA - USA, even if they do have a little bit of international range. See [https://ndsa.org/membership/members/](https://ndsa.org/membership/members/)_ <br><br>Roxana: what's the difference between members and partners? Could ARKA become a partner rather than an NDSA member? Maybe they don't really advertise this as such. For instance, the Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC) is a partner. <br><br>John: maybe partners are like sponsors. But I don't know the difference. <br><br>Tracy: how did it come up?<br><br>John: conversation with Nathan Tallman. <br><br>Tracy: John, could you ask Nathan for more details? |
| Next meetings (Thanksgiving and 23rd December) |     | One meeting on December 9th instead of November 25 and December 23 |

Action items
------------

- [ ] Julien Antoine Raemy write a blog post about the congruence of IIIF and ARK 
- [x] John Kunze update "new meeting templates" to add standing items for WGs to watch for things to blog about
- [ ] Tracy Seneca will update event calendar
- [ ] All: please have a look at the Getting Started page so we can publish it Nov 15
- [x] Tracy Seneca will do blog post about iPres presentation and embedding slides via WordPress shortcode
- [x] John Kunze ask N. Tallman about difference between partners and members
- [x] John Kunze replace Nov and Dec meetings with one more meeting Dec 9

Attachments:
------------

![](images/icons/bullet_blue.gif) [jak\_iPRES\_ARKA.pdf](attachments/225149905/225150151.pdf) (application/pdf)