\---

confluence-id: 208340459

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-04-22 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Jun 01, 2021

Date
----

22 Apr 2021

Attendees
---------

*   Tracy Seneca
*   Kurt Ewoldsen
*   Julien Raemy
*   Roxana Maurer
*   John Kunze
*   Maria Gould
*   Peter Collopy

Goals
-----

*   wikipedia page; ok I have my NAAN, what now?

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
|     | announcements |     | Project has created an ARK plug-in for ARKs (DOI plug-in already existed).  John will turn this into a blog post for the next newsletter.  DOIs used for journals & issues, but ARKs used for article-level identifiers.<br><br>Maria Gould attended the PID Forum and believes there is space there to create an ARK niche within their activities and participate going forward (pidforum.org).<br><br>(RM)  ARK is included in a UK cultural heritage persistent identifier guide and since it is alphabetical, it comes first!  URL needs to be updated from n2t.net to arks.org |
|     | upcoming meetings, calls for papers, submission deadlines |     | *   DLF Forum deadline for proposals is May 17th ([https://forum2021.diglib.org/call-for-proposals](https://forum2021.diglib.org/call-for-proposals))<br>*   No PASIG this year<br>*   Deadline for iPres proposals is April 30th:<br>    *   IIIF & persistent identifiers<br>    *   Changes in ARK specification<br>*   IIIF conference schedule not yet released, but there is an ARK related session included (the company is called Pleade - [https://pleade.com/](https://pleade.com/))<br>*   LibNova (vendor) LibSafe (product) worked with Tracy and added ARK support through EZID.  (RM) British library is also using that product and is a big ARK user, so this could become a more generic solution.<br>*   JAK spoke with the author of the Dutch PID guide and ARKS will be included in the next version.  (Thanks to Roxana for bring this to our attention) |
|     | draft the page "OK I have my NAAN, what now?" (Tracy actually made a stab at this with her formulation of the tree of info under [arks.org/about](http://arks.org/about)) |     | (RM)  Reviewed Tracy's draft and now believes that all of the information is on the web page, but the amount is overwhelming.  Should we create a blog post or message template for how to respond to these requests.<br><br>(JK)  So a Quick Start guide approach is what is called for?  Yes.<br><br>(TS)  Take the Getting Started topics on the existing page and put them at the top of the page/list, so they are the first things up for viewers.<br><br>(JK)  The plug-in page needs to be reviewed and updated.  Tracy volunteers to reach out to posters and get updates / validate captured information.<br><br>(JK)  The EZID codebase is becoming more mature and potentially useful to others in the ARK community.<br><br>(MG)  The code is openly available, but is not being managed as an open source project.  Most changes are back-end work to improve stability of the code.<br><br>(TS)  It would be good for LYRASIS to run an EZID-like service.<br><br>(KE)   We have made a proposal that LYRASIS do this and there is interest. They just started a DOI service, so have limited bandwidth to take on additional projects. |
|     | wikipedia page<br><br>*   *   history section<br>    *   rest of page |     | Peter has drafted a history section, and suggests that it should link back to a more in-depth history from an externally published source.<br><br>More sections need to be worked on, and can be addressed incrementally over time.<br><br>Peter was volunteered to take a first pass at copying in object-type-ARK-counts from the FAQ to the Wikipedia page. |

Action items
------------

- [ ] Roxana Maurer draft a Quick Start page
- [x] John Kunze to add Roxana to googlegroup
- [x] John Kunze see if Smithsonian would like to present at DLF
- [ ] Bertrand Caron to work with John Kunze on wikipedia page
- [x] Tracy Seneca to contact LYRASIS about need for ARK service
- [x] Tracy Seneca to think about how to reach out to developers listed in the arks.org/resources page
- [ ] John Kunze reach out to https://tanc-ahrc.github.io/PIDResources/PID%20functionalities.html list ARK info, changing n2t.net-based docs to arks.org-based docs
- [x] Peter Sachs Collopy to copy object-type-ARK-counts from the FAQ to the Wikipedia page