\---

confluence-id: 230818050

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-12-09 Outreach WG Agenda and Notes
=======================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Feb 18, 2022

Date
----

09 Dec 2021

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze 
*   Bertrand Caron 
*   Julien Antoine Raemy 
*   Peter Sachs Collopy 
*   Maria Gould 

Goals
-----

      December newsletter wrapup, first draft of Getting Started guide, leadership changes

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| Announcements |     | JR: blog post on IIIF/ARKs delayed until January; video recording of talk not yet published |
| Calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | JK: conferences are hard to attend completely given online/zoom fatigue  <br>JR: agreed, very tiring; at a recent conference, the first 2 sessions were 200 people, but later people stopped attending. Hybrid conferences are even worse. I feel less guilty these days about missing sessions. Seminars/webinars seem ok.  <br>BC: there was one PDF conference that worked pretty well by limiting it to 1 hour per day, several times per week  <br>MG: I think there needs to be more of a specific goal for the meetings. I personally am very burnt out on events; feels like just going through the motions aren't cutting it any more with all the distractions. A clear goal and structure works best. It's why pidapalooza wasn't held this year  <br>JK: A big missing reward is seeing and holding conversations with people. |
| Any news items we should blog about? |     | JR: maybe in general we can blob about milestones, such as first institution from region X, or 1000th institution, or the first institution from a given domain  <br>JK: it was nice to see the first org from NZ register recently |
| Finishing first draft of the [getting started](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-UKS5OU6oGLh1cfcdZCBydOfr5jt7Tub5utxtTaVXzM/edit) page |     | BC: I made some changes, added some policy considerationJK: NAAN is different an institutional identifier; for a getting started doc, is there value in calling an org with a NAAN an "ARK institution"? ie, is it easier to learn this as a first approximation, and to learn the nuances later?MG: don't know if NAAN registry is worse than ARK institutions; we can't really have it both ways; a NAAN is not an org  <br>BC: generally agree, that to a first approximation a NAAN is kind of an organization. Perhaps just stay with advice on using separate shoulders for separate streams within an org (with exceptions made when an org really needs another NAAN)  <br>MG: maybe for those requesting a NAAN, advise them to check if their institution already has a NAAN?  <br>all: agreed  <br>ACTION: add language to request form to ask people to check; think about a mechanism to allow people (requesters and curators) to check for already registered org  <br>ACTION: add hyperlinks to BC's additions on component and variant qualifiers  <br>JR: suggest publishing as soon as this round of review done; better than waiting  <br>All: ok to publish it as an evolving "beta" as soon as this round of comments is resolvedACTION: publish guide |
| Sharing the joy: Outreach WG facilitation<br><br>*   new chair and co-chair, limited term with rotation among other members; duties include coming up with agenda items (eg, by asking for them), and running or canceling the monthly meeting (2021-09-23)<br>*   recruiting new members<br>*   adjusting meeting frequency (eg, every other month) |     | JR: chair/vice-chair has to happen at some pointall: support idea of email to list asking for chair/vice-chair  <br>ACTION: email list asking for vice-chair to step forward for apprenticeship/mentoring starting next year  <br>JR: at some point maybe we do less outreach through this group, and combine it with, say the PID Alliance |
| Sharing the joy: handling feedback from contact form ([2021-06-24](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ARKs/2021-06-24+Outreach+WG+Agenda+and+Notes)) and [info@arks.org](mailto:info@arks.org) email<br><br>*   Example: June 22, "Hi, i am interested in using ARK identifiers, I will apply for a NAAN code. I wanted to know how I can use N2T as a resolver once I have my NAAN. Are there any costs to pay for the resolver service?" |     | \- didn't have time for this |
| End of year wrap up for Dec newsletter (delayed until Dec 15). |     | JK: please submit any items for this end of year blog post |
| [Permalinks and persistent identifiers](https://francearchives.fr/fr/article/339695117#h2_cd408de924b11eff747ef231d20266b3cc2e39184) |     | BC: this looks like a great document  <br>JK: agreed; let's see if we can incorporate/borrow and translate into English and Spanish  <br>ACTION: all to review and send comments and ideas |

Action items
------------

- [ ] John Kunze add language to NAAN request form to ask people to check for prior existence; think about a mechanism to allow people (requesters and curators) to check for already registered org
- [ ] Bertrand Caron add hyperlinks to getting started guide additions on component and variant qualifiers
- [ ] All: resolve final comments and publish guide
- [x] John Kunze email list asking for vice-chair to step forward for apprenticeship/mentoring starting next year
- [ ] All: review and send comments and ideas for how we might use Permalinks and persistent identifiers