\---

confluence-id: 220430431

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-08-18 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Sep 14, 2021

Date
----

18 Aug 2021

Attendees
---------

*   John Kunze 
*   Maria Gould 
*   Brian McBride 
*   Bertrand Caron 

Goals
-----

NAAN registry changes; NAAN meeting facilitator

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| announcements |     | CCFr NAAN issue: not registered, but has minted hundreds of thousands<br><br>42409 NAAN: questions about assignment policy as reflected in NAAN registry |
| calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     |     |
| Volunteer to write short blog post about surpassing 800 NAANs?  [This could be a template](https://arks.org/blog/community-update-2021-04-26/). |     | Brian will draft a blog post |
| Propose: NAAN curator chairs the NAAN meeting during duty month |     | All: agreed |
| Curator needed for next month |     | Adjusted schedule so BC takes most of September (Sept 8 - 30) |
| Proposed [revised NAAN request form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1EhU84S3h-Bqgd0T1ZHPnA8lnwX2QEiIXpZxy3uF9a1M/edit)<br><br>*   clarified provider/NAAN holder roles<br>*   more logical grouping of info<br>*   requesting org. type<br>*   what are ARKs being assigned to?<br>*   parallel changes to curator form |     | MG: regarding orgtype, recommend leaving it as single select (multiple choice rather than check boxes)  <br>BC: what about the kinds of things you are planning to assign ARKs to?  <br>JK: this is more about workflow type rather than orgtype; the workflow type is primarily to assess requester's plans; should it be free text?  <br>MG: I think structured multi-answer checkboxes will provide more useful data  <br>BC: and it will be useful to prompt user with suggestions to help them get started |

Action items
------------

- [x] John Kunze Maria Gould work on response regarding 42409 NAAN
- [ ] Brian McBride to write blog post with community update
- [x] John Kunze update duty roster to indicate meeting facilitation as part of duty
- [ ] Bertrand Caron create stub agenda page for Sept NAAN WG meeting
- [ ] Bertrand Caron will send message to INIST to try to recruit curators
- [x] John Kunze Bertrand Caron work on controlled vocabulary for object types