\---

confluence-id: 225149596

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-10-20 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by Maria Gould, last modified on Oct 20, 2021

Date
----

20 Oct 2021

Attendees
---------

*   Maria Gould 
*   Bertrand Caron 
*   John Kunze 
*   Brian McBride 
*   aurélien conraux 
*   Stéphanie Gregorio
*   David Nogueiras Blanco

Goals
-----

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| announcements |     | Welcome to new group members! <br><br>Bertrand: Had a talk with \_\_\_\_ about ARKs for education. Haven't had a chance to talk about participation with the French Ministry of Education in the working group. Even if he doesn't join he will be able to find someone who could back up the team members. So hopefully we will have a new member in the next few weeks. |
| calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | David: There will be a workshop in Freiburg the 30th of November. They will present the ARKetype project. David will share details with everyone when he has more information. <br><br>John: Doing a lightning talk this Friday at iPRES<br><br>Bertrand: There is a panel that Jonathan Clark proposed for the PID Interest Group at the Research Data Alliance (RDA) plenary. Roxana answered his call and will be participating. <br><br>Maria: PIDapalooza is taking a break this year. There is a [survey for feedback on future approaches](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeUbFwh9o9Hf-RVCS53a5I3quhrwhIP2wqn25NCwPZdcJlK0A/viewform). |
| status of updated NAAN request form? | Maria | John: No concrete progress yet |
| status of bugs with the form | John | John: Working on resolving the bugs. Two issues: one with encoding, another with updating recent entries. Hoping to have the changes in this Sunday during the N2T maintenance window. This will also enable having two versions of the response letter (one English, one French).<br><br>Aurélien: Made the update for his organization but wasn't sure what was happening with the bug. The current entry is correct now. John will check to see if this was a new bug or a known bug. <br><br>Bertrand: Also having an issue with adding contact information details |
| reminder about duty roster | John | Reminder: Aurélien is on duty next month <br><br>John: We don't currently have a protocol for when a backup curator should step in to help. Is there a way we could automate this? <br><br>Maria: A low-budget way that can be implemented immediatelywould be for the backup curator to keep track of issues coming in (via your email inbox) and follow up after 4 days if the primary curator hasn't processed the request yet. In the future, perhaps something like Github could be explored. <br><br>Aurélien: Use a flag in Outlook to keep track of the requests<br><br>Bertrand: Keeping track in email sounds good. Github good in the future.<br><br>John: John is listed as backup for each month. Can we get someone else to begin taking over? <br><br>*   Bertrand will be backup for Aurélien in November<br>*   Maria will be backup for Brian in December |
| What is our policy on manually editing the registry? | Bertrand | Had a few occasions in September where the bug prevented updating the NAAN entry. If all else fails, is it okay to manually edit the registry? <br><br>*   John: Yes |

Action items
------------