\---

confluence-id: 222593617

confluence-space: %%CONFLUENCE-SPACE%%

\---

2021-09-15 NAAN Registry WG Agenda and Notes
============================================

Created by John Kunze, last modified on Sep 15, 2021

Date
----

15 Sep 2021

Attendees
---------

*   Bertrand Caron facilitator
*   John Kunze 
*   aurélien conraux 
*   Brian McBride 

Goals
-----

Clear up old action items; discuss changes to revised NAAN request form

Discussion items
----------------

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Item | Who | Notes |
| announcements |     | BC: As duty curator, Maria Gould facilitates next month |
| calls for papers, submission deadlines, upcoming meetings: [Calendar of events](Calendar-of-events_208341505.html) |     | JK: Interview posted with origin story of ARKs: [https://saaers.wordpress.com/2021/09/14/ark-alliance-an-interview-with-john-kunze/](https://saaers.wordpress.com/2021/09/14/ark-alliance-an-interview-with-john-kunze/)<br><br>AC: Chloe has some historical stuff in her thesis  <br>BM: maybe we should consider doing some post for World Digital Preservation Day, Nov 4 |
| status review of previous action items<br><br>- [x] John Kunze Maria Gould work on response regarding 42409 NAAN<br>- [ ] Brian McBride to write blog post with community update<br>- [x] John Kunze update duty roster to indicate meeting facilitation as part of duty<br>- [x] Bertrand Caron create stub agenda page for Sept NAAN WG meeting<br>- [x] Bertrand Caron will send message to INIST to try to recruit curators<br>- [x] John Kunze Bertrand Caron work on controlled vocabulary for object types<br><br>  <br><br>- [x] John Kunze Bertrand Caron see if CCFr did indeed stop using their own NAANs<br>- [x] John Kunze draft a policy statement in response to "we would like a different NAAN"<br>- [x] John Kunze ask Outreach WG for feedback on institutional type field |     | BM: will share draft community update<br><br>  <br><br>  <br><br>  <br><br>BC: have not yet heard back from INIST<br><br>  <br><br>JK: type list received no comments from Outreach; assuming it will never be perfect and there's nothing depending on it yet, is it good enough for now?  <br>BM: yes (seconded)<br><br>BC: we will try to set up a meeting with CCFr<br><br>  <br><br>JK: this is done, and curation checklist points to the policy document |
| Final feedback on proposed [revised NAAN request form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1EhU84S3h-Bqgd0T1ZHPnA8lnwX2QEiIXpZxy3uF9a1M/edit)? Some new issues:<br><br>*   what about NP/FP/Other form ambiguity?<br>*   assignment policy: lower, upper, mixed case<br>*   resolution policy: map to: lower, upper<br>*   NAAN-local id in redirect rule |     | BC: NP/FP field gets an error when "other"; should we include a longer statement that goes into the registry? or leave it blank; it can feel  <br>    uncomfortable for the curator to make the decision; or put "unknown"  <br>JK: idea was that manual change by curator to "fix" is worth it given that we can use this to learn about people's notion of what their institution  <br>AC: with the institutional types, we get more info in the registry  <br>BC: yes  <br>JK: should we change to the form processor so that "other" becomes a third value in the registry? eg, NP/FP/OTHER  <br>BM: yes (seconded<br><br>JK: dormant ${nlid} (NAAN-local id) N2T feature surfaced in dev instance; allows OJS and Wordpress sites to come up without access to a webmaster that can install a rewrite rule (no matter how simple, it still needs a webmaster when there may be none available to do it)  <br>JK: also propose adding a declaration of uppercase or lowercase (mixed case being the default) in ARKs; this declaration permits great usability enhancements for users who can't know what case conventions apply and who just assume one case or the other will work (and this declaration can make them work for specific NAANs without harming ARKs' ability to handle mixed case in general)  <br>BC: I like the ${nlid} idea and the case norm convention declaration and mapping idea; are there other ARK components that might be candidates for mapping during resolution?  <br>JK: yes, there are several more dormant components (isolated in the decomposed ARK but not surfaced) |

Action items
------------

- [ ] Brian McBride John Kunze consider doing some post for World Digital Preservation Day, Nov 4
- [ ] Brian McBride community update blog post